Renovation, Repair and Painting Program: Contractors | US EPA
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know
Here’s how you know
Official websites use .gov
A
.gov
website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A
lock
(
Lock
A locked padlock
) or
https://
means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
JavaScript appears to be disabled on this computer. Please
click here to see any active alerts
.
Menu
Search
Search
Primary navigation
Environmental Topics
Environmental Topics
Air
Bed Bugs
Chemicals, Toxics, and Pesticide
Emergency Response
Environmental Information by Location
Health
Land, Waste, and Cleanup
Lead
Mold
Radon
Research
Science Topics
Water Topics
A-Z Topic Index
Laws & Regulations
Laws & Regulations
By Business Sector
By Topic
Compliance
Enforcement
Guidance
Laws and Executive Orders
Regulations
Report a Violation
Report a Violation
Environmental Violations
Fraud, Waste or Abuse
About EPA
About EPA
Our Mission and What We Do
Headquarters Offices
Regional Offices
Labs and Research Centers
Newsroom
Planning, Budget, and Results
Organization Chart
EPA History
Breadcrumb
Home
Lead
Renovation, Repair & Painting (RRP) Program
Renovation, Repair and Painting Program: Contractors
Receive EPA Lead RRP Updates
Update GovDelivery user settings
Información relacionada en español
.
If you are a renovation firm, then we recommend you read through all of the subjects below to learn how to fulfill your legal requirements to protect yourself, your employees, and your clients from the dangers of lead exposure.
Overview |
Firm Certification
|
Renovator Training
|
Work Practices
|
Resources
As a contractor, you play an critical role in helping to prevent lead exposure. Ordinary renovation and maintenance activities can create toxic lead dust that can harm your customers, workers and even yourself. But by following lead-safe work practices, you can prevent lead hazards.
On this page:
Renovation program overview
Firms that require certification
Activities covered by the rule
Paint testing
Have a question?
Renovation Program Overview
The
Lead Renovation, Repair and Painting (RRP) Rule
establishes requirements for firms and individuals performing renovations, and affects contractors, property managers and others who disturb painted surfaces. It applies to work in houses, apartments and child-occupied facilities (such as schools and child care centers) built before 1978. It includes pre-renovation education requirements as well as training, firm certification and work practice requirements.
Firms that Require Certification
In general, anyone who is paid to perform work that disturbs paint in housing and child-occupied facilities built before 1978 must be certified. This includes all firms, even sole proprietorships.
Examples of the types of firms covered:
Residential rental property owners/managers;
General contractors; and
Special trade contractors, including painters, plumbers, carpenters and electricians.
Firms cannot advertise or perform renovation activities covered by the RRP Rule in homes or child-occupied facilities built before 1978 without firm certification.
Activities Covered By the Rule
In general, any activity that disturbs paint in pre-1978 housing and child-occupied facilities is covered, including:
Remodeling and repair/maintenance;
Electrical work;
Plumbing;
Painting preparation;
Carpentry; and
Window replacement.
The following housing or activities are not covered by the rule:
Housing built in 1978 or later;
Housing specifically for elderly or disabled persons, unless children under six reside or are expected to reside there;
"Zero-bedroom" dwellings (studio apartments, dormitories, etc.); unless children under six reside or are expected to reside there;
Housing or components declared lead-free by a certified inspector or risk assessor. Also, a certified renovator may declare specific components lead-free using an EPA recognized test kit or by collecting paint chip samples for analysis by an EPA recognized laboratory; and
Minor repair and maintenance activities that disturb six square feet or less of paint per room inside, or 20 square feet or less on the exterior of a home or building. (Note: Window replacement and demolition of painted surfaces are always covered regardless of square footage. Activities designated as "prohibited" are prohibited regardless of square footage.).
Paint testing
Paint testing is not required by the RRP Rule, but unless you have documentation that the paint is not lead-based, then the requirements of the RRP Rule apply.
If you or your client chooses to have the paint tested prior to renovation, testing must be done by the appropriate qualified professional on all surfaces to be affected by the work.
Type of Paint Testing for Renovations
Who Can Do the Testing?
EPA-recognized test kits
Certified renovators
X-Ray Fluorescence instruments
Certified lead-based paint inspectors or risk assessors
Paint chip sampling
Certified renovator, inspector or risk assessor
Have a Question?
Search frequent questions about lead
​Contact the Lead Hotline
EPA Regional Lead Contacts
Lead
Open Sidenav Menu
Close Sidenav Menu
Learn About Lead
expand or collapse the child menu
Actions to Reduce Lead Exposure
Reduce the Risk of Lead Exposure at Home
Resources for Communities
expand or collapse the child menu
Outreach Materials
Build Your Local Lead Action Plan
Heavy Metals in Cultural Products
Lead Research
EPA Programs to Reduce Lead Exposure
expand or collapse the child menu
EPA's Lead Laws, Regulations & Policies
Renovation, Repair & Painting (RRP) Program
expand or collapse the child menu
Contractors
Training Providers
Consumers
Do-It-Yourselfers
Renters
Operators of Child Care Facilities
Property Managers
Test Kit Users & Vendors
Real Estate Agents
Lead-Based Paint Activities Program
expand or collapse the child menu
Real Estate Disclosures
Abatement vs. RRP
Homeowners & Renters
Training Providers
Find an Accredited Lab
Abatement Contractors, Inspectors, Risk Assessors & Project Designers
Lead in Drinking Water
Lead in Soil
expand or collapse the child menu
Healthy Gardening Practices to Reduce Exposure to Lead-Contaminated Soil
Lead in Air
En español: Plomo
Contact Us About Lead
Contact Us About Lead
to ask a question, provide feedback, or report a problem.
Last updated on March 31, 2026
Assistance
Spanish
Arabic
Chinese (simplified)
Chinese (traditional)
French
Haitian Creole
Korean
Portuguese
Russian
Tagalog
Vietnamese
Discover.
Accessibility Statement
Budget & Performance
Contracting
EPA www Web Snapshot
Grants
No FEAR Act Data
Plain Writing
Privacy and Security Notice
Connect.
Data
Inspector General
Jobs
Newsroom
Regulations.gov
Subscribe
USA.gov
White House
Ask.
Contact EPA
EPA Disclaimers
Hotlines
FOIA Requests
Frequent Questions
Site Feedback
Follow.