9 | Office of Foreign Assets Control
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know
Here’s how you know
The .gov means it’s official.
Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a federal government site.
The site is secure.
The
https://
ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely.
U.S. Department of the Treasury
Read the latest Treasury news
Office of Foreign Assets Control
A Part of Treasury's Office of Terrorism and
Financial Intelligence
MENU
About OFAC
History
Introductory Document
Video Overview
Recent Actions
Sanctions Lists
Sanctions List Service
Specially Designated Nationals (SDN) List
Consolidated Sanctions List (Non-SDN Lists)
Other OFAC Sanctions Lists
Sanctions List Search
Sanctions Programs
Russia-related Sanctions
Iran Sanctions
North Korea Sanctions
Cuba Sanctions
Counter Narcotics Sanctions
Cyber-related Sanctions
Venezuela-related Sanctions
Complete List of Sanctions Programs and Country Information
Submit a Report
Contact Us
Search
Enter Search Term(s):
Breadcrumb
Home
Frequently Asked Questions
9
Specially Designated Nationals List (SDN List)
Consolidated Sanctions List (Non-SDN Lists)
Additional Sanctions Lists
Search OFAC's Sanctions Lists
Sanctions Programs and Country Information
Recent Actions
OFAC License Application Page
Additional OFAC Resources
Frequently Asked Questions
Civil Penalties and Enforcement Information
OFAC Reporting System
Selected General Licenses Issued by OFAC
Contact OFAC
Basic Information on OFAC and Sanctions
9. What does OFAC mean when it refers to "blocked" property? How does OFAC define “property”?
Answer
"Blocking" refers to freezing assets or other property. Blocking immediately imposes an across-the-board prohibition against transfers or dealings of any kind with regard to the property.
OFAC authorities may require U.S. persons to block all property and interests in property of certain persons, known as "blocked persons." When this is the case, any property and interests in property of a blocked person that are within the United States or within the possession or control of a U.S. person must be blocked (i.e., "frozen")—not seized—and may not be transferred, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in. Title to the blocked property remains with the blocked person, but the exercise of powers and privileges normally associated with ownership is prohibited without authorization from OFAC.
In addition, parties must report blocked property to OFAC within 10 business days of the property becoming blocked. Blocked persons include persons that appear on OFAC’s List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (SDN List), foreign governments subject to blocking, and persons blocked pursuant to OFAC’s “
50 Percent Rule
.” For further information, see
FAQ 401
and OFAC
guidance
on the "50 Percent Rule."
The term "property," as defined in various OFAC regulations, includes financial property (e.g., money, checks, savings accounts, stocks, bonds, debt, or any other financial instruments), real, tangible, and intangible assets (e.g., goods, merchandise, ships, land contracts, and real estate), and any other property or interests therein present, future, or contingent. For information on how OFAC defines property in a particular sanctions program, please see the relevant
OFAC implementing regulations
and the
Sanctions Programs and Country Information
page on OFAC’s website.
Date Updated: August 21, 2024.
Date Released
September 10, 2002
Similar FAQs
10. What jurisdictions or countries are sanctioned by the United States?
91. What lists does OFAC maintain? Where can I find these lists?
5. When screening for sanctions, how do I determine if I have a valid match to a name on one of OFAC’s lists?
402. How does OFAC’s 50 Percent Rule apply to situations in which one or more blocked persons owned 50 percent or more of an entity, but subsequent to their designations one or more blocked persons divest their ownership stakes in the entity in a transaction that occurs entirely outside of U.S. jurisdiction such that the resulting combined ownership of the entity by blocked persons is less than 50 percent? How should a person treat property or interests in property of such an entity (1) in future transactions (post-divestment) and (2) that was properly blocked while the entity was owned 50 percent or more by one or more blocked persons?
3. What kinds of prohibitions does OFAC impose?
4. Are there exceptions to sanctions prohibitions? Are exceptions the same across sanctions programs?
Office of Terrorism and Financial Intelligence
Additional Resources
Privacy Act
Small Business Contacts
Budget and Performance
TreasuryDirect.gov Securities/Bonds
Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)
No FEAR Act Data
Whistleblower Protection
Helpful OFAC Links
Sign Up For OFAC E-mail Alerts
Contact OFAC
Dealing with an "OFAC Alert"
List of Country-related Sanctions
Appeal an OFAC designation or other listing
Other Government Sites
USA.gov
USAJOBS.gov
OPM.gov
MyMoney.gov
Data.gov
Footer
Privacy Policy
Google Privacy
Site Policies and Notices
Accessibility