Accredited Investors – Updated Investor Bulletin | Investor.gov
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know
Here’s how you know
The .gov means it’s official.
Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a federal government site.
The site is secure.
The
https://
ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely.
Investor.gov
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
Auxiliary Header
About Us
Contact Us
Follow Us
Glossary
Información en Español
Search Investor.gov
Main navigation
Introduction to Investing
Getting Started
Five Questions to Ask Before You Invest
Understanding Fees
Asset Allocation and Diversification
Investing on Your Own
Working with an Investment Professional
Researching Investments
Investing Basics
Save and Invest
Invest For Your Goals
How Stock Markets Work
Investment Accounts
Investment Products
Glossary
What is Risk?
Role of the SEC
General Resources
Investor Alerts & Bulletins
Publications and Research
Financial Tools & Calculators
Financial Tools
Investment Professional Background Check
EDGAR - Search Company Filings
Fund Analyzer
Retirement Ballpark E$timate
Social Security Retirement Estimator
Calculators
Compound Interest Calculator
Savings Goal Calculator
Required Minimum Distribution Calculator
College Savings Calculator
Protect Your Investments
Fraud
Types of Fraud
How to Avoid Fraud
Resources for Victims
Get Help
Submit Questions and Complaints
Arbitration and Mediation Clinics
Additional Resources
Spotlight
Common Scams
Crypto Assets
HoweyTrade
Never Stop Learning
Public Service Campaign
World Investor Week
Investing Quizzes
Videos
Retirement Toolkit
First Job
Switching Jobs
Employer-Sponsored Plans
Federal Government Plans
Managing Lifetime Income
Senior Specialist Designations
Social Security
Avoiding Retirement Fraud
Information For:
Students
Military
Veterans
Older Investors
Teachers
Youth
Entrepreneurs
Breadcrumb
Home
Introduction to Investing
Investor Alerts and Bulletins
Main navigation (Alerts)
Investor Alerts & Bulletins
Publications and Research
Accredited Investors – Updated Investor Bulletin
April 14, 2021
The SEC’s Office of Investor Education and Advocacy is issuing this Investor Bulletin to educate individual investors about what it means to be an “accredited investor.”
What does it mean to be an accredited investor?
Under the federal securities laws, only persons who are
accredited investors
may participate in certain securities offerings.  One reason these offerings are limited to accredited investors is to ensure that all participating investors are financially sophisticated and able to fend for themselves or sustain the risk of loss, thus rendering unnecessary the protections that come from a registered offering.
Unlike offerings
registered
with the SEC in which certain information is required to be disclosed, companies and private funds, such as a
hedge fund
or venture capital fund, engaging in these exempt offerings do not have to make prescribed disclosures to accredited investors.  These offerings involve unique risks and you should be aware that you could lose your entire investment.
Who is an accredited investor?
An
accredited investor
, in the context of a
natural person
, includes anyone who:
earned income that exceeded $200,000 (or $300,000 together with a spouse or
spousal equivalent
) in each of the prior two years, and reasonably expects the same for the current year, OR
has a net worth over $1 million, either alone or together with a spouse or
spousal equivalent
(excluding the value of the person’s primary residence), OR
holds in good standing a Series
7
,
65
or
82
license.
Financial professional licenses.
The General Securities Representative license (
Series 7
), the Private Securities Offering Representative license (
Series 82
) and the Licensed Investment Adviser Representative (
Series 65
) are
professional certifications and designations
for
financial professionals
.  In order to obtain and qualify for these licenses, an individual must pass the related exam.  Whether one is considered in good standing is specific to the designation, and persons seeking accredited investor status as a Series 7, 65 or 82 license holder should consult FINRA rules and any state rules applicable to them.
There are other categories of accredited investors, including the following, which may be relevant to you:
any trust, with total
assets
in excess of $5 million, not formed specifically to purchase the subject securities, whose purchase is directed by a sophisticated person,
OR
certain entity with total
investments
in excess of $5 million, not formed to specifically purchase the subject securities,
OR
any entity in which all of the equity owners are accredited investors.
In this context, a
sophisticated
person means the person must have, or the company or private fund offering the securities reasonably believes that this person has, sufficient knowledge and experience in financial and business matters to evaluate the merits and risks of the prospective investment.
How do I calculate my net worth?
Generally, to qualify as an accredited investor under the net worth test, you must have a net worth that exceeds $1 million, either alone or with a spouse or
spousal equivalent
, at the time of the sale of the securities.  If calculating joint net worth with a spouse or
spousal equivalent
, it is not necessary that property be held jointly and the securities being purchased do not have to be acquired jointly.  Calculating net worth involves adding up all your assets and subtracting all your liabilities.  The resulting sum is your net worth.
Spousal equivalent.
A
spousal equivalent
means a cohabitant occupying a relationship generally equivalent to that of a spouse.
The value of your primary residence is not included in your net worth calculation.
In addition, any mortgage or other loan on the primary residence does not count as a liability up to the fair market value of the residence.  If the loan is for more than the fair market value of the primary residence (
i.e.
, if your mortgage is underwater), then the loan amount that is over the fair market value counts as a liability under the net worth test.
Further, any increase in the loan amount (other than for the purchase of the primary residence) in the 60 days prior to your purchase of the securities (even if the loan amount does not exceed the value of the primary residence) will count as a liability as well.  The reason for this is to prevent net worth from being artificially inflated through converting home equity into cash or other assets.
The following table sets forth examples of calculations under the net worth test for being an accredited investor:
Jane Doe
John Smith
James Lee
Primary residence
(
not included except for related liabilities below
):
Home value.....................
$   500,000
$   500,000
$   500,000
Mortgage.........................
300,000
200,000
600,000
Home equity line..............
–
150,000
–
Included assets:
Bank accounts..................
$   400,000
$   400,000
$   400,000
401(k)/IRA accounts..........
400,000
400,000
400,000
Other investments.............
400,000
400,000
400,000
Car.................................
20,000
20,000
20,000
Total included assets......
$ 1,220,000
$1,220,000
$1,220,000
Included liabilities:
Student and car loans.........
$
100,000
$
100,000
$
100,000
Other liabilities.................
100,000
100,000
100,000
Portion of mortgage
underwater.....................
–
–
100,000
Balance on home equity line
(less than 60 days old).....
–
100,000
–
Total included liabilities.
$
200,000
$
300,000
$
300,000
Net worth.........................
$ 1,020,000
$   920,000
$   920,000
Accredited investor...........
Yes
No
No
Additional Resources
To learn more about accredited investor, see this
website
and
Rule 501(a)
of Regulation D.
If you are considering an ICO or other investment opportunity involving digital assets, see the SEC resources available at
Spotlight on Initial Coin Offerings and Digital Assets
.
To check your investment professional, visit our
Investment Adviser Public Disclosure (IAPD)
website.
To research whether your investment professional has a judgment or order entered against them in an SEC enforcement action, see our
SEC Action Lookup – Individuals (SALI)
website.
For additional investor educational information, see the SEC’s website for individual investors,
Investor.gov
.
This bulletin represents the views of the staff of the Office of Investor Education and Advocacy.  It is not a rule, regulation, or statement of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”).  The Commission has neither approved nor disapproved its content.  This bulletin, like all staff statements, has no legal force or effect: it does not alter or amend applicable law, and it creates no new or additional obligations for any person.
Featured Content
Take This Month's Quiz
Check your knowledge of Trump Accounts in our September investing quiz!
Jumpstart Your Child's Financial Future
Learn how to enroll in a Trump Account today!
Use Financial Tools and Calculators
Access RMD, compound interest and savings goal calculators plus other financial tools.
Invest in Your Future. Protect It Today.
Learn more about World Investor Week, a global campaign to raise awareness about the importance of investor education and protection.
Never stop learning about investing!
Stay up to date with Investor Alerts & Bulletins, Quizzes, and more.
Get Email Updates from Investor.gov
Sign up for Investor Updates Enter Email Address
Site Information
SEC.gov
MyMoney.gov
FOIA
Plain Writing
Privacy
Vulnerability Disclosure Policy
USA.gov
Disclaimer
Multilingual Disclaimer
Return to Top