SOURCE: https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billTextClient.xhtml?bill_id=202520260SB1072
CHAPTER: not shown
RETRIEVED: 2026-10-03 via curl of ca_leginfo bill_text (pipeline/adapters)

id="bill_all" align="justify">

Senate Bill

No. 1072

CHAPTER 322

An act to amend Sections 65589.5, 65863.10, 65863.11, and 66300 of, and to repeal Section 65584.6 of, the Government Code, to amend Sections 50199.7, 50199.15, 50408, 50676, 50827, and 50828 of the Health and Safety Code, and to amend Sections 12206, 17058, and 23610.5 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, relating to housing.

[
Approved by

Governor
September 18, 2026.

Filed with

Secretary of State
September 18, 2026.
]

LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGEST

SB 1072, Committee on Housing.
Housing omnibus.

(1) Existing law authorized the County of Napa, until June 30, 2007, to meet up to 15 percent of its existing share of the regional housing need for lower income households in a specified manner.

This bill would repeal this expired authority.

(2) The Housing Accountability Act, which is a part of the Planning and Zoning Law, among other things, prohibits a local agency from disapproving a housing development project, as described, unless it makes specified written findings.
The act requires a petition to enforce its provisions to be brought pursuant to a specified procedure and be filed no later than 90 days from the later of (A) the effective date of a decision of the local agency imposing conditions on, disapproving, or any other final action taken on a housing development project or (B) the expiration of certain time periods specified in the Permit Streamlining Act.

This bill would also include in the above-described expiration of certain time periods, among other things, the expiration of specified time periods in the State Housing Law.

The Planning and Zoning Law requires the owner of land on which an assisted housing development is located, at least 12 months prior to an anticipated date of termination of a subsidy contract, an expiration of rental restrictions, or a prepayment on an assisted housing development, to provide notice of the proposed change to each affected tenant household
residing in the assisted housing development at the time the notice is provided and to the affected public entities. If the owner decides to terminate a subsidy contract or prepay the mortgage pursuant to these provisions, or if the owner has an assisted housing development in which there will be the expiration of rental restrictions, existing law requires the owner to first give notice of the opportunity to specified entities. Existing law requires the Department of Housing and Community Development to monitor compliance with these provisions and provide a report to the Legislature, as prescribed, containing specified information. Existing law defines various terms for these purposes.

This bill would additionally require the owner to provide that notice to affected public entities, as defined. The bill would prescribe the process for serving the notice on a city, county, or city and county in which the assisted housing development is located,
to the appropriate local public housing authority, if any, and the Department of Housing and Community Development. The bill would remove some of the information required to be in the report from the department described above. The bill would also make technical changes to these provisions.

(3) The Housing Crisis Act of 2019 prohibits an affected county or affected city, as defined, from enacting a development policy, standard, or condition that would change the general plan land use designation, specific plan land use designation, or zoning of a parcel or parcels of property to a less intensive use below what was allowed under the land use designation and zoning ordinances of the affected county or affected city in effect on January 1, 2018. However, the act authorized the City of San Jose, until the date that the City of San Jose’s housing element update for the 6th cycle was due, to proactively change a zoning ordinance to a more intensive use and use the added capacity to subsequently change a zoning ordinance applicable to an eligible parcel, as defined, to a less intensive use as long as there is no net loss in
residential capacity.

This bill would remove that expired authority.

(4) Existing law establishes a low-income housing tax credit program pursuant to which the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee provides procedures and requirements for the allocation, in modified conformity with federal law, of state insurance, personal income, and corporation tax credit amounts to qualified low-income housing projects that have been allocated, or qualify for, a federal low-income housing tax credit and farmworker housing. Existing law defines “agricultural worker” or “farmworker” for these purposes to have the same meaning as
“agricultural employee,” which is defined to mean one engaged in agriculture, as defined, and to exclude, among other persons, any person other than those employees excluded from the coverage under specified provisions of federal law.

This bill would revise the definition of “agricultural worker” or “farmworker” to mean an individual who derives, or prior to retirement or disability derived, a substantial portion of their income as an agricultural employee, as specified. The bill would also conform state tax law to changes relating to low-income housing tax credits for buildings financed by tax-exempt bonds subject to volume cap made by the federal One Big Beautiful Bill Act. The bill would specify the amount of credit to the taxpayer for each year, as prescribed. The bill would also make technical changes and correct cross-references in these provisions.

Existing law requires the committee to annually submit to the
Legislature a report specifying, with respect to its activities during the previous calendar year, certain information, including, among other requirements, the total amount of low-income housing credits allocated by the committee. Existing law requires the committee to include in its annual report to the Legislature, an aggregation of the information submitted annually by housing sponsors for all projects that have received an allocation in previous years, specifying certain information, including, among other requirements, the total number of units assisted by the credit that are occupied by households whose income is 60% or less of the area median gross income.

For a project that has received an allocation on or after January 1, 2026, this bill would require the committee to include in the above-described aggregation, the total number of units assisted by the credit that meet each of specified conditions, including, among others, the unit is accessible to people
with mobility disabilities or that the unit is accessible to people with vision and hearing disabilities.

(5) Existing law designates the Department of Housing and Community Development as the state agency responsible for administering funds received by the state from the federal Housing Trust Fund pursuant to the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008, and requires the department to submit an allocation plan for the distribution of those funds, as specified, to the Assembly Committee on Housing and Community Development and the Senate Transportation and Housing Committees.

This bill would update the name of the Senate
Housing Committee within these provisions.

Existing law requires the department to submit an annual report to the Governor and both houses of the Legislature on the operations and accomplishments during the previous fiscal year of the housing programs administered by the department, as specified. Existing law requires that report to include an evaluation of any program established by the department to meet the legal requirements of the federal Housing Trust Fund program guidelines.

This bill would remove the requirement to include that evaluation in the report.

Existing law generally governs the state’s implementation of the federal State Community Development Block Grant Program.

This bill would make nonsubstantive, technical changes to those provisions.

(6) This bill would incorporate additional changes to Section 65589.5 of the Government Code proposed by AB 1621 to be operative only if this bill and AB 1621 are enacted and this bill is enacted last.

The bill would incorporate additional changes to Sections 12206, 17058, and 23610.5 of the Revenue and Taxation Code proposed by AB 2270 to be operative only if this bill and AB 2270 are enacted and this bill is enacted last.

(7) The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.

This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason.

Digest Key

Vote:
MAJORITY
Appropriation:
NO
Fiscal Committee:
YES
Local Program:
YES

Bill Text

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

SECTION 1.
Section 65584.6 of the Government Code is repealed.

SEC. 2.
Section 65589.5 of the Government Code is amended to read:

65589.5.
(a) (1) The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:

(A) The lack of housing, including emergency shelters, is a critical problem that threatens the economic, environmental, and social quality of life in California.

(B) California housing has become the most expensive in the nation. The excessive cost of the state’s housing supply is partially caused by activities and policies of many local governments that limit the approval of housing, increase the cost of land for housing, and require that high fees and exactions be paid by producers of housing.

(C) Among the consequences of those actions are discrimination against low-income and minority households, lack of housing to support employment growth, imbalance in jobs and housing, reduced mobility, urban sprawl, excessive commuting, and air quality deterioration.

(D) Many local governments do not give adequate attention to the economic, environmental, and social costs of decisions that result in disapproval of housing development projects, reduction in density of housing projects, and excessive standards for housing development projects.

(2) In enacting the amendments made to this section by the act adding this paragraph, the Legislature further finds and declares the following:

(A) California has a housing supply and affordability crisis of historic proportions. The consequences of failing to effectively and aggressively confront this crisis are hurting millions of Californians, robbing future generations of the chance to call California home, stifling economic opportunities for workers and businesses, worsening poverty and homelessness, and undermining the state’s environmental and climate objectives.

(B) While the causes of this crisis are multiple and complex, the absence of meaningful and effective policy reforms to significantly enhance the approval and supply of housing affordable to Californians of all income levels is a key factor.

(C) The crisis has grown so acute in California that
supply, demand, and affordability fundamentals are characterized in the negative: underserved demands, constrained supply, and protracted unaffordability.

(D) According to reports and data, California has accumulated an unmet housing backlog of nearly 2,000,000 units and must
provide for at least 180,000 new units annually to keep pace with growth through 2025.

(E) California’s overall home ownership rate is at its lowest level since the 1940s. The state ranks 49th out of the 50 states in home ownership rates as well as in the supply of housing per capita. Only one-half of California’s households are able to afford the cost of housing in their local regions.

(F) Lack of supply and rising costs are compounding inequality and limiting advancement opportunities for many Californians.

(G) The majority of California renters, more than 3,000,000 households, pay more than 30 percent of their income toward rent and nearly one-third, more than 1,500,000 households, pay more than 50
percent of their income toward rent.

(H) When Californians have access to safe and affordable housing, they have more money for food and health care; they are less likely to become homeless and in need of government-subsidized services; their children do better in school; and businesses have an easier time recruiting and retaining employees.

(I) An additional consequence of the state’s cumulative housing shortage is a significant increase in greenhouse gas emissions caused by the displacement and redirection of populations to states with greater housing opportunities, particularly working- and middle-class households. California’s cumulative housing shortfall therefore has not only national but international environmental consequences.

(J) California’s housing picture has reached a crisis of historic proportions despite the fact that, for decades, the Legislature has enacted numerous statutes intended to significantly increase the approval, development, and affordability of housing for all income levels, including this section.

(K) The Legislature’s intent in enacting this section in 1982 and in expanding its provisions since then was to significantly increase the approval and construction of new housing for all economic segments of California’s communities by meaningfully and effectively curbing the capability of local governments to deny, reduce the density for, or render infeasible housing development projects and emergency shelters. That intent has not been fulfilled.

(L) It is the policy of the state
that this section be interpreted and implemented in a manner to afford the fullest possible weight to the interest of, and the approval and provision of, housing.

(3) It is the intent of the Legislature that the conditions that
would have a specific, adverse impact upon the public health and safety, as described in paragraph (2) of subdivision (d) and paragraph (1) of subdivision (j), arise infrequently.

(4) It is the intent of the Legislature that the amendments removing provisions from subparagraphs (D) and (E) of paragraph (6) of subdivision (h) and adding those provisions to Sections 65589.5.1 and 65589.5.2 by Assembly Bill 1413 (2023), insofar as they are substantially the same as existing law, shall be considered restatements and continuations of existing law, and not new enactments.

(b) It is the policy of the state that a local government not reject or make infeasible housing development projects, including emergency shelters, that contribute to meeting the need determined pursuant
to this article without a thorough analysis of the economic, social, and environmental effects of the action and without complying with subdivision (d).

(c) The Legislature also recognizes that premature and unnecessary development of agricultural lands for urban uses continues to have adverse effects on the availability of those lands for food and fiber production and on the economy of the state. Furthermore, it is the policy of the state that development should be guided away from prime agricultural lands; therefore, in implementing this section, local jurisdictions should encourage, to the maximum extent practicable, in filling existing urban areas.

(d) For a housing development project for very low, low-, or moderate-income households, or an emergency shelter, a local agency
shall not disapprove the housing development project or emergency shelter, or condition approval in a manner that renders the housing development project or emergency shelter infeasible, including through the use of design review standards, unless it makes written findings, based upon a preponderance of the evidence in the record, as to one of the following:

(1) The jurisdiction has adopted a housing element pursuant to this article that has been revised in accordance with Section 65588, is in substantial compliance with this article, and the jurisdiction has met or exceeded its share of the regional housing need allocation pursuant to Section 65584 for the planning period for the income category proposed for the housing development project, provided that any disapproval or conditional approval shall not be based on any of the reasons
prohibited by Section 65008. If the housing development project includes a mix of income categories, and the jurisdiction has not met or exceeded its share of the regional housing need for one or more of those categories, then this paragraph shall not be used to disapprove or conditionally approve the housing development project. The share of the regional housing need met by the jurisdiction shall be calculated consistently with the forms and definitions that may be adopted by the Department of Housing and Community Development pursuant to Section 65400. In the case of an emergency shelter, the jurisdiction shall have met or exceeded the need for emergency shelter, as identified pursuant to paragraph (7) of subdivision (a) of Section 65583. Any disapproval or conditional approval pursuant to this paragraph shall be in accordance with applicable law, rule, or standards.

(2) The housing development project or emergency shelter as proposed would have a specific, adverse impact upon the public health or safety, and there is no feasible method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the specific, adverse impact without rendering the development unaffordable to low- and moderate-income households or rendering the development of the emergency shelter financially infeasible. As used in this paragraph, a “specific, adverse impact” means a significant, quantifiable, direct, and unavoidable impact, based on objective, identified written public health or safety standards, policies, or conditions as they existed on the date the application was deemed complete. The following shall not constitute a specific, adverse impact upon the public health or safety:

(A) Inconsistency with the zoning ordinance or general plan land use designation.

(B) The eligibility to claim a welfare exemption under subdivision (g) of Section 214 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(3) The denial of the housing development project or imposition of conditions is required in order to comply with specific state or federal law, and there is no feasible method to comply without rendering the development unaffordable to low- and moderate-income households or rendering the development of the emergency shelter financially infeasible.

(4) The housing development project or emergency shelter is proposed on land zoned for agriculture or resource preservation that is surrounded on at least two sides by land
being used for agricultural or resource preservation purposes, or which does not have adequate water or wastewater facilities to serve the project.

(5) On the date an application for the housing development project or emergency shelter was deemed complete, the jurisdiction had adopted a revised housing element that was in substantial compliance with this article, and the housing development project or emergency shelter was inconsistent with both the jurisdiction’s zoning ordinance and general plan land use designation as specified in any element of the general plan.

(A) This paragraph shall not be utilized to disapprove or conditionally approve a housing development project proposed on a site, including a candidate site for rezoning, that is identified as suitable or available
for very low, low-, or moderate-income households in the jurisdiction’s housing element if the housing development project is consistent with the density specified in the housing element, even though the housing development project was inconsistent with both the jurisdiction’s zoning ordinance and general plan land use designation on the date the application was deemed complete.

(B) If the local agency has failed to identify a zone or zones where emergency shelters are allowed as a permitted use without a conditional use or other discretionary permit, has failed to demonstrate that the identified zone or zones include sufficient capacity to accommodate the need for emergency shelter identified in paragraph (7) of subdivision (a) of Section 65583, or has failed to demonstrate that the identified zone or zones can accommodate at least
one emergency shelter, as required by paragraph (4) of subdivision (a) of Section 65583, then this paragraph shall not be utilized to disapprove or conditionally approve an emergency shelter proposed for a site designated in any element of the general plan for industrial, commercial, or multifamily residential uses. In any action in court, the burden of proof shall be on the local agency to show that its housing element does satisfy the requirements of paragraph (4) of subdivision (a) of Section 65583.

(6) On the date an application for the housing development project or emergency shelter was deemed complete, the jurisdiction did not have an adopted revised housing element that was in substantial compliance with this article and the housing development project is not a builder’s remedy project.

(e) Nothing in this section shall be construed to relieve the local agency from complying with the congestion management program required by Chapter 2.6 (commencing with Section 65088) of Division 1 of Title 7 or the California Coastal Act of 1976 (Division 20 (commencing with Section 30000) of the Public Resources Code). Neither shall anything in this section be construed to relieve the local agency from making one or more of the findings required pursuant to Section 21081 of the Public Resources Code or otherwise complying with the California Environmental Quality Act (Division 13 (commencing with Section 21000) of the Public Resources Code).

(f) (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (6) and (8) of this subdivision, and subdivision (o), nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit a local agency
from requiring the housing
development project to comply with objective, quantifiable, written development standards, conditions, and policies appropriate to, and consistent with, meeting the jurisdiction’s share of the regional housing need pursuant to Section 65584. However, the development standards, conditions, and policies shall be applied to facilitate and accommodate development at the density permitted on the site and proposed by the development. Nothing in this section shall limit a project’s eligibility for a density bonus, incentive, or concession, or waiver or reduction of development standards and parking ratios, pursuant to Section 65915.

(2) Except as provided in subdivision (o), nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit a local agency from requiring an emergency shelter project to comply with objective, quantifiable, written
development standards, conditions, and policies that are consistent with paragraph (4) of subdivision (a) of Section 65583 and appropriate to, and consistent with, meeting the jurisdiction’s need for emergency shelter, as identified pursuant to paragraph (7) of subdivision (a) of Section 65583. However, the development standards, conditions, and policies shall be applied by the local agency to facilitate and accommodate the development of the emergency shelter project.

(3) Except as provided in subdivision (o), nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit a local agency from imposing fees and other exactions otherwise authorized by law that are essential to provide necessary public services and facilities to the housing development project or emergency shelter.

(4) For
purposes of this section, a housing development project or emergency shelter shall be deemed consistent, compliant, and in conformity with an applicable plan, program, policy, ordinance, standard, requirement, or other similar provision if there is substantial evidence that would allow a reasonable person to conclude that the housing development project or emergency shelter is consistent, compliant, or in conformity.

(5) For purposes of this section, a change to the zoning ordinance or general plan land use designation subsequent to the date the application was deemed complete shall not constitute a valid basis to disapprove or condition approval of the housing development project or emergency shelter.

(6) Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) to (5), inclusive, all of the following
apply to a housing development project that is a builder’s remedy project:

(A) A local agency may only require the project to comply with the objective, quantifiable, written development standards, conditions, and policies that would have applied to the project had it been proposed on a site with a general plan designation and zoning classification that allow the density and unit type proposed by the applicant. If the local agency has no general plan designation or zoning classification that would have allowed the density and unit type proposed by the applicant, the development proponent may identify any objective, quantifiable, written development standards, conditions, and policies associated with a different general plan designation or zoning classification within that jurisdiction, that facilitate the project’s density and unit type, and those
shall apply.

(B) (i) Except as authorized by paragraphs (1) to (4), inclusive, of subdivision (d), a local agency shall not apply any individual or combination of objective, quantifiable, written development standards, conditions, and policies to the project that do any of the following:

(I) Render the project infeasible.

(II) Preclude a project that meets the requirements allowed to be imposed by subparagraph (A), as modified by any density bonus, incentive, or concession, or waiver or reduction of development standards and parking ratios, pursuant to Section 65915, from being constructed as proposed by the applicant.

(ii) The local
agency shall bear the burden of proof of complying with clause (i).

(C) (i) A project applicant that qualifies for a density bonus pursuant to Section 65915 shall receive two incentives or concessions in addition to those granted pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (d) of Section 65915.

(ii) For a project seeking density bonuses, incentives, concessions, or any other benefits pursuant to Section 65915, and notwithstanding paragraph (6) of subdivision (o) of Section 65915, for purposes of this paragraph, maximum allowable residential density or base density means the density permitted for a builder’s remedy project pursuant to subparagraph (C) of paragraph (11) of subdivision (h).

(iii) A
local agency shall grant any density bonus pursuant to Section 65915 based on the number of units proposed and allowable pursuant to subparagraph (C) of paragraph (11) of subdivision (h).

(iv) A project that dedicates units to extremely low-income households pursuant to subclause (I) of clause (i) of subparagraph (C) of paragraph (3) of subdivision (h) shall be eligible for the same density bonus, incentives or concessions, and waivers or reductions of development standards as provided to a housing
development project that dedicates three percentage points more units to very low income households pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (f) of Section 65915.

(v) All units dedicated to extremely low-income, very low income, low-income, and moderate-income households pursuant to paragraph (11) of subdivision (h) shall be counted as affordable units in determining whether the applicant qualifies for a density bonus pursuant to Section 65915.

(D) (i) The project shall not be required to apply for, or receive approval of, a general plan amendment, specific plan amendment, rezoning, or other legislative approval.

(ii) The project shall not be required to apply for, or receive, any
approval or permit not generally required of a project of the same type and density proposed by the applicant.

(iii) Any project that complies with this paragraph shall be deemed consistent, compliant, and in conformity with an applicable plan, program, policy, ordinance, standard, requirement, redevelopment plan and implementing instruments, or other similar provision for all purposes, and shall not be considered or treated as a nonconforming lot, use, or structure for any purpose.

(E) A local agency shall not adopt or impose any requirement, process, practice, or procedure or undertake any course of conduct, including, but not limited to, increased fees or inclusionary housing requirements, that applies to a project solely or partially on the basis that the project is a builder’s remedy
project.

(F) (i) A builder’s remedy project shall be deemed to be in compliance with the residential density standards for the purposes of complying with subdivision (b) of Section 65912.123.

(ii) A builder’s remedy project shall be deemed to be in compliance with the objective zoning standards, objective subdivision standards, and objective design review standards for the purposes of complying with paragraph (5) of subdivision (a) of Section 65913.4.

(G) (i) (I) If the local agency had a local affordable housing requirement, as defined in Section 65912.101, that on January 1, 2024, required a greater percentage of affordable units than required under
subparagraph (A) of paragraph (11) of subdivision (h), or required an affordability level deeper than what is required under subparagraph (A) of paragraph (11) of subdivision (h), then, except as provided in subclauses (II) and (III), the local agency may require a housing development for mixed-income households to comply with an otherwise lawfully applicable local affordability percentage or affordability level. The local agency shall not require housing for mixed-income households to comply with any other aspect of the local affordable housing requirement.

(II) Notwithstanding subclause (I), the local affordable housing requirements shall not be applied to require housing for mixed-income households to dedicate more than 20 percent of the units to affordable units of any kind.

(III) Housing for mixed-income households that is required to dedicate 20 percent of the units to affordable units shall not be required to dedicate any of the affordable units at an income level deeper than lower income households, as defined in Section 50079.5 of the Health and Safety Code.

(IV) A local agency may only require housing for mixed-income households to comply with the local percentage requirement or affordability level described in subclause (I) if it first makes written findings, supported by a preponderance of evidence, that compliance with the local percentage requirement or the affordability level, or both, would not render the housing development project infeasible. If a reasonable person could find compliance with either requirement, either alone or in combination, would render the project infeasible, the project
shall not be required to comply with that requirement.

(ii) Affordable units in the development project shall have a comparable bedroom and bathroom count as the market rate units.

(iii) Each affordable unit dedicated pursuant to this subparagraph shall count toward satisfying a local affordable housing requirement. Each affordable unit dedicated pursuant to a local affordable housing requirement that meets the criteria established in this subparagraph shall count towards satisfying the requirements of this subparagraph. This is declaratory of existing law.

(7) (A) For a housing development project application that is deemed complete before January 1, 2025, the development proponent for the project
may choose to be subject to the provisions of this section that were in place on the date the preliminary application was submitted, or, if the project meets the definition of a builder’s remedy project, it may choose to be subject to any or all of the provisions of this section applicable as of January 1, 2025.

(B) Notwithstanding subdivision (c) of Section 65941.1, for a housing development project deemed complete before January 1, 2025, the development proponent may choose to revise their application so that the project is a builder’s remedy project, without being required to resubmit a preliminary application, even if the revision results in the number of residential units or square footage of construction changing by 20 percent or more.

(8) A housing development
project proposed on a site that is identified as suitable or available for very low, low-, or moderate-income households in the jurisdiction’s housing element, that is consistent with the density specified in the most recently updated and adopted housing element, and that is inconsistent with both the jurisdiction’s zoning ordinance and general plan land use designation on the date the application was deemed complete, shall be subject to the provisions of subparagraphs (A), (B), and (D) of paragraph (6) and paragraph (9).

(9) For purposes of this subdivision, “objective, quantifiable, written development standards, conditions, and policies” means
criteria that involve no personal or subjective judgment by a public official and are uniformly verifiable by reference to an external and uniform benchmark or criterion available and knowable by both the development applicant or proponent and the public official before submittal, including, but not limited to, any standard, ordinance, or policy described in paragraph (4) of subdivision (o). Nothing herein shall affect the obligation of the housing development project to comply with the minimum building standards approved by the California Building Standards Commission as provided in Part 2.5 (commencing with Section 18901) of Division 13 of the Health and Safety Code. In the event that applicable objective, quantifiable, written development standards, conditions, and policies are mutually inconsistent, a development shall be deemed consistent with the criteria that permits the
density and unit type closest to that of the proposed project.

(g) This section shall be applicable to charter cities because the Legislature finds that the lack of housing, including emergency shelter, is a critical statewide problem.

(h) The following definitions apply for the purposes of this section:

(1) “Feasible” means capable of being accomplished in a successful manner within a reasonable period of time, taking into account economic, environmental, social, and technological factors.

(2) “Housing development project” means a use consisting of any of the following:

(A) Residential units
only.

(B) Mixed-use developments consisting of residential and nonresidential uses that meet any of the following conditions:

(i) A mixed-use development that meets both of the following:

(I) At least two-thirds of the new or converted square footage is designated for residential use.

(II) (ia) No portion of the project is designated for use as a hotel, motel, bed and breakfast inn, or other transient lodging.

(ib) (Ia) Notwithstanding sub-subclause (ia), if a mixed-use project as defined in this paragraph includes a hotel, motel, bed and breakfast inn, or other
transient lodging, the portion of the mixed-use project which does not include a hotel, motel, bed and breakfast inn, or other transient lodging shall be considered a housing development project.

(Ib) The local agency may separately approve the portion of the project that includes a hotel, motel, bed and breakfast inn, or other transient lodging, which shall not be eligible for any benefits conferred on a housing development project by state law, including, but not limited to, those available to a development under Section 65913.4.

(ic) For purposes of this subclause, the term “other transient lodging”
does not include either of the following:

(Ia) A residential hotel, as defined in Section 50519 of the Health and Safety Code.

(Ib) After the issuance of a certificate of occupancy, a resident’s use or marketing of a unit as short-term lodging, as defined in Section 17568.8 of the Business and Professions Code, in a manner consistent with local law.

(ii) At least 50 percent of the new or converted square footage is designated for residential use and the project meets both of the following:

(I) The project includes at least 500 net new residential units.

(II) No portion of the project is designated for
use as a hotel, motel, bed and breakfast inn, or other transient lodging, except a portion of the project may be designated for use as a residential hotel, as defined in Section 50519 of the Health and Safety Code.

(iii) At least 50 percent of the net new or converted square footage is designated for residential use and the project meets all of the following:

(I) The project includes at least 500 net new residential units.

(II) The project involves the demolition or conversion of at least 100,000 square feet of nonresidential use.

(III) The project demolishes at least 50 percent of the existing nonresidential uses on the site.

(IV) No portion of the project is designated for use as a hotel, motel, bed and breakfast inn, or other transient lodging, except a portion of the project may be designated for use as a residential hotel, as defined in Section 50519 of the Health and Safety Code.

(C) Transitional housing or supportive housing.

(D) Farmworker housing, as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code.

(3) (A) “Housing for very low, low-, or moderate-income households” means housing for lower income households, mixed-income households, or moderate-income households.

(B) “Housing
for lower income households” means a housing development project in which 100 percent of the units, excluding managers’ units, are dedicated to lower income households, as defined in Section 50079.5 of the Health and Safety Code, at an affordable cost, as defined by Section 50052.5 of the Health and Safety Code, or an affordable rent set in an amount consistent with the rent limits established by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee. The units shall be subject to a recorded deed restriction for a period of 55 years for rental units and 45 years for owner-occupied units.

(C) (i) “Housing for mixed-income households” means any of the following:

(I) A housing development project in which at least 7 percent of the total units, as defined in
subparagraph (A) of paragraph (8) of subdivision (o) of Section 65915, are dedicated to extremely low income households, as defined in Section 50106 of the Health and Safety Code.

(II) A housing development project in which at least 10 percent of the total units, as defined in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (8) of subdivision (o) of Section 65915, are dedicated to very low income households, as defined in Section 50105 of the Health and Safety Code.

(III) A housing development project in which at least 13 percent of the total units, as defined in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (8) of subdivision (o) of Section 65915, are dedicated to lower income households, as defined in Section 50079.5 of the Health and Safety Code.

(IV) A housing development project in which there are 10 or fewer total units, as defined in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (8) of subdivision (o) of Section 65915, that is on a site that is smaller than one acre, and that is proposed for development at a minimum density of 10 units per acre.

(ii) All units dedicated to extremely low income, very low income, and low-income households pursuant to clause (i) shall meet both of the following:

(I) The units shall have an affordable housing cost, as defined in Section 50052.5 of the Health and Safety Code, or an affordable rent, as defined in Section 50053 of the Health and Safety Code.

(II) The development proponent shall agree to, and the local agency shall ensure, the
continued affordability of all affordable rental units included pursuant to this section for 55 years and all affordable ownership units included pursuant to this section for a period of 45 years.

(D) “Housing for moderate-income households” means a housing development project in which 100 percent of the units are sold or rented to moderate-income households, as defined in Section 50093 of the Health and Safety Code, at an affordable housing cost, as defined in Section 50052.5 of the Health and Safety Code, or an affordable rent, as defined in Section 50053 of the Health and Safety Code. The units shall be subject to a recorded deed restriction for a period of 55 years for rental units and 45 years for owner-occupied units.

(4) “Area median income” means area median income as periodically
established by the Department of Housing and Community Development pursuant to Section 50093 of the Health and Safety Code.

(5) Notwithstanding any other law, “deemed complete” means that the applicant has submitted a preliminary application pursuant to Section 65941.1 or, if the applicant has not submitted a preliminary application, has submitted a complete application pursuant to Section 65943. The local agency shall bear the burden of proof in establishing that the application is not complete.

(6) “Disapprove the housing development project” includes any instance in which a local agency does any of the following:

(A) Votes or takes final administrative action on a proposed housing development project application
and the application is disapproved, including any required land use approvals or entitlements necessary for the issuance of a building permit.

(B) Fails to comply with the time periods specified in subdivision (a) of Section 65950. An extension of time pursuant to Article 5 (commencing with Section 65950) shall be deemed to be an extension of time pursuant to this paragraph.

(C) Fails to meet the time limits specified in Section 65913.3.

(D) Fails to meet the time limit specified in Section 17970.3 of the Health and Safety Code.

(E) Fails to cease a course of conduct undertaken for an improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless
increases in the cost of the proposed housing development project, that effectively disapproves the proposed housing development without taking final administrative action if all of the following conditions are met:

(i) The project applicant provides written notice detailing the challenged conduct and why it constitutes disapproval to the local agency established under Section 65100.

(ii) Within five working days of receiving the applicant’s written notice described in clause (i), the local agency shall post the notice on the local agency’s internet website, provide a copy of the notice to any person who has made a written request for notices pursuant to subdivision (f) of Section 21167 of the Public Resources Code, and file the notice with the county clerk of each county in which the
project will be located. The county clerk shall post the notice and make it available for public inspection in the manner set forth in subdivision (c) of Section 21152 of the Public Resources Code.

(iii) The local agency shall consider all objections, comments, evidence, and concerns about the project or the applicant’s written notice and shall not make a determination until at least 60 days after the applicant has given written notice to the local agency pursuant to clause (i).

(iv) Within 90 days of receipt of the applicant’s written notice described in clause (i), the local agency shall issue a written statement that it will immediately cease the challenged conduct or issue written findings that comply with both of the following requirements:

(I) The findings articulate an objective basis for why the challenged course of conduct is necessary.

(II) The findings provide clear instructions on what the applicant must submit or supplement so that the local agency can make a final determination regarding the next necessary approval or set the date and time of the next hearing.

(v) (I) If a local agency continues the challenged course of conduct described in the applicant’s written notice and fails to issue the written findings described in clause (iv), the local agency shall bear the burden of establishing that its course of conduct does not constitute a disapproval of the housing development project under this subparagraph in an action taken by the
applicant.

(II) If an applicant challenges a local agency’s course of conduct as a disapproval under this subparagraph, the local agency’s written findings described in clause (iv) shall be incorporated into the administrative record and be deemed to be the final administrative action for purposes of adjudicating whether the local agency’s course of conduct constitutes a disapproval of the housing development project under this subparagraph.

(vi) A local agency’s action in furtherance of complying with the California Environmental Quality Act (Division 13 (commencing with Section 21000) of the Public Resources Code), including, but not limited to, imposing mitigating measures, shall not constitute project disapproval under this subparagraph.

(F) Fails to comply with Section 65905.5. For purposes of this subparagraph, a builder’s remedy project shall be deemed to comply with the applicable, objective general plan and zoning standards in effect at the time an application is deemed complete.

(G) (i) Determines that an application for a housing development project is incomplete pursuant to subdivision (a) or (b) of Section 65943 and includes in the determination an item that is not required on the local agency’s submittal requirement checklist. The local agency shall bear the burden of proof that the required item is listed on the submittal requirement checklist.

(ii) In a subsequent review of an application pursuant to Section 65943, requests the applicant provide new information that was not
identified in the initial determination and upholds this determination in the final written determination on an appeal filed pursuant to subdivision (c) of Section 65943. The local agency shall bear the burden of proof that the required item was identified in the initial determination.

(iii) Determines that an application for a housing development project is incomplete pursuant to subdivision (a) or (b) of Section 65943, a reasonable person would conclude that the applicant has submitted all of the items required on the local agency’s submittal requirement checklist, and the local agency upholds this determination in the final written determination on an appeal filed pursuant to subdivision (c) of Section 65943.

(iv) If a local agency determines that an application is incomplete
under Section 65943 after two resubmittals of the application by the applicant, the local agency shall bear the burden of establishing that the determination is not an effective disapproval of a housing development project under this section.

(H) Violates subparagraph (D) or (E) of paragraph (6) of subdivision (f).

(I) Makes a written determination that a preliminary application described in subdivision (a) of Section 65941.1 has expired or that the applicant has otherwise lost its vested rights under the preliminary application for any reason other than those described in subdivisions(d) and (e) of Section 65941.1.

(J) (i) Fails to make a determination of whether the project is exempt from the
California Environmental Quality Act (Division 13 (commencing with Section 21000) of the Public Resources Code), or commits an abuse of discretion, as defined in subdivision (b) of Section 65589.5.1 if all of the conditions in Section 65589.5.1 are satisfied.

(ii) This subparagraph shall become inoperative on January 1, 2031.

(K) (i) Fails to adopt a negative declaration or addendum for the project, to certify an environmental impact report for the project, or to approve another comparable environmental document, such as a sustainable communities environmental assessment pursuant to Section 21155.2 of the Public Resources Code, as required pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act (Division 13 (commencing with Section 21000) of the Public Resources
Code), if all of the conditions in Section 65589.5.2 are satisfied.

(ii) This subparagraph shall become inoperative on January 1,
2031.

(7) (A) For purposes of this section and Sections 65589.5.1 and 65589.5.2, “lawful determination” means any final decision about whether to approve or disapprove a statutory or categorical exemption or a negative declaration, addendum, environmental impact report, or comparable environmental review document under the California Environmental Quality Act (Division 13 (commencing with Section 21000) of the Public Resources Code) that is not an abuse of discretion, as defined in subdivision (b) of Section 65589.5.1 or subdivision (b) of Section 65589.5.2.

(B) This paragraph shall become inoperative on January 1, 2031.

(8) “Lower density” includes any conditions that have the same effect
or impact on the ability of the project to provide housing.

(9) “Objective” means involving no personal or subjective judgment by a public official and being uniformly verifiable by reference to an external and uniform benchmark or criterion available and knowable by both the development applicant or proponent and the public official.

(10) Notwithstanding any other law, “determined to be complete” means that the applicant has submitted a complete application pursuant to Section 65943.

(11) “Builder’s remedy project” means a project that meets all of the following criteria:

(A) The project is a housing development project that provides housing for very low,
low-, or moderate-income households.

(B) On or after the date an application for the housing
development project or emergency shelter was deemed complete, the jurisdiction did not have a housing element that was in substantial compliance with this article.

(C) The project has a density such that the number of units, as calculated before the application of a density bonus pursuant to Section 65915, complies with all of the following conditions:

(i) The density does not exceed the greatest of the following densities:

(I) Fifty percent greater than the minimum density deemed appropriate to accommodate housing for that jurisdiction as specified in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (3) of subdivision (c) of Section 65583.2.

(II) Three times
the density allowed by the general plan, zoning ordinance, or state law, whichever is greater.

(III) The density that is consistent with the density specified in the housing element.

(ii) Notwithstanding clause (i), the greatest allowable density shall be 35 units per acre more than the amount allowable pursuant to clause (i), if any portion of the site is located within any of the following:

(I) One-half mile of a major transit stop, as defined in Section 21064.3 of the Public Resources Code.

(II) A very low vehicle travel area, as defined in subdivision (b) of Section 65589.5.1.

(III) A high or
highest resource census tract, as identified by the latest edition of the “CTCAC/HCD Opportunity Map” published by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and the Department of Housing and Community Development.

(D) (i) On sites that have a minimum density requirement and are located within one-half mile of a commuter rail station or a heavy rail station, the density of the project shall not be less than the minimum density required on the site.

(I) For purposes of this subparagraph, “commuter rail” means a railway that is not a light rail, streetcar, trolley, or tramway and that is for urban passenger train service consisting of local short distance travel operating between a central city and adjacent suburb with service operated on a regular basis by or
under contract with a transit operator for the purpose of transporting passengers within urbanized areas, or between urbanized areas and outlying areas, using either locomotive-hauled or self-propelled railroad passenger cars, with multitrip tickets and specific station-to-station fares.

(II) For purposes of this subparagraph, “heavy rail” means an electric railway with the capacity for a heavy volume of traffic using high speed and rapid acceleration passenger rail cars operating singly or in multicar trains on fixed rails, separate rights-of-way from which all other vehicular and foot traffic are excluded, and high platform loading.

(ii) On all other sites with a minimum density requirement, the density of the project shall not be less than the local agency’s minimum density
or one-half of the minimum density deemed appropriate to accommodate housing for that jurisdiction as specified in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (3) of subdivision (c) of Section 65583.2, whichever is lower.

(E) The project site does not abut a site where more than one-third of the square footage on the site has been used, within the past three years, by a heavy industrial use, or a Title V industrial use, as those terms are defined in Section 65913.16.

(12) “Condition approval” includes imposing on the housing development project, or attempting to subject it to, development standards, conditions, or policies.

(13) “Unit type” means the form of ownership and the kind of residential unit, including, but not limited to,
single-family detached, single-family attached, for-sale, rental, multifamily, townhouse, condominium, apartment, manufactured homes and mobilehomes, factory-built housing, and residential hotel.

(14) “Proposed by the applicant” means the plans and designs as submitted by the applicant, including, but not limited to, density, unit size, unit type, site plan, building massing, floor area ratio, amenity areas, open space, parking, and ancillary commercial uses.

(i) If any city, county, or city and county denies approval or imposes conditions, including design changes, lower density, or a reduction of the percentage of a lot that may be occupied by a building or structure under the applicable planning and zoning in force at the time the housing development project’s application is complete,
that have a substantial adverse effect on the viability or affordability of a housing development for very low, low-, or moderate-income households, and the denial of the development or the imposition of conditions on the development is the subject of a court action which challenges the denial or the imposition of conditions, then the burden of proof shall be on the local legislative body to show that its decision is consistent with the findings as described in subdivision (d), and that the findings are supported by a preponderance of the evidence in the record, and with the requirements of subdivision (o).

(j) (1) When a proposed housing development project complies with applicable, objective general plan, zoning, and subdivision standards and criteria, including design review standards, in effect at the time that the
application was deemed complete, but the local agency proposes to disapprove the project or to impose a condition that the project be developed at a lower density, the local agency shall base its decision regarding the proposed housing development project upon written findings supported by a preponderance of the evidence on the record that both of the following conditions exist:

(A) The housing development project would have a specific, adverse impact upon the public health or safety unless the project is disapproved or approved upon the condition that the project be developed at a lower density. As used in this paragraph, a “specific, adverse impact” means a significant, quantifiable, direct, and unavoidable impact, based on objective, identified written public health or safety standards, policies, or conditions as they existed on the date
the application was deemed complete.

(B) There is no feasible method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the adverse impact identified pursuant to paragraph (1), other than the disapproval of the housing development project or the approval of the project upon the condition that it be developed at a lower density.

(2) (A) If the local agency considers a proposed housing development project to be inconsistent, not in compliance, or not in conformity with an applicable plan, program, policy, ordinance, standard, requirement, or other similar provision as specified in this subdivision, it shall provide the applicant with written documentation identifying the provision or provisions, and an explanation of the reason or reasons it considers the housing development
to be inconsistent, not in compliance, or not in conformity as follows:

(i) Within 30 days of the date that the application for the housing development project is determined to be complete, if the housing development project contains 150 or fewer housing units.

(ii) Within 60 days of the date that the application for the housing development project is determined to be complete, if the housing development project contains more than 150 units.

(B) If the local agency fails to provide the required documentation pursuant to subparagraph (A), the housing development project shall be deemed consistent, compliant, and in conformity with the applicable plan, program, policy, ordinance, standard, requirement, or other similar
provision.

(3) For purposes of this section, the receipt of a density bonus, incentive, concession, waiver, or reduction of development standards pursuant to Section 65915 shall not constitute a valid basis on which to find a proposed housing development project is inconsistent, not in compliance, or not in conformity, with an applicable plan, program, policy, ordinance, standard, requirement, or other similar provision specified in this subdivision.

(4) For purposes of this section, a proposed housing development project is not inconsistent with the applicable zoning standards and criteria, and shall not require a rezoning, if the housing development project is consistent with the objective general plan standards and criteria but the zoning for the project site is inconsistent
with the general plan. If the local agency has complied with paragraph (2), the local agency may require the proposed housing development project to comply with the objective standards and criteria of the zoning which is consistent with the general plan, however, the standards and criteria shall be applied to facilitate and accommodate development at the density allowed on the site by the general plan and proposed by the proposed housing development project.

(k) (1) (A) (i) The applicant, a person who would be eligible to apply for residency in the housing development project or emergency shelter, or a housing organization may bring an action to enforce this section. If, in any action brought to enforce this section, a court finds that any of the following are met, the court shall
issue an order pursuant to clause (ii):

(I) The local agency, in violation of subdivision (d), disapproved a housing development project or conditioned its approval in a manner rendering it infeasible for the development of an emergency shelter, or housing for very low, low-, or moderate-income households, including farmworker housing, without making the findings required by this section.

(II) The local agency, in violation of subdivision (j), disapproved a housing development project complying with applicable, objective general plan and zoning standards and criteria, or imposed a condition that the project be developed at a lower density, without making the findings required by this section.

(III) The local agency, in
violation of subdivision (o), required or attempted to require a housing development project to comply with an ordinance, policy, or standard not adopted and in effect when a preliminary application was submitted.

(IV) The local agency violated a provision of this section applicable to a builder’s remedy project.

(ii) If the court finds that one of the conditions in clause (i) is met, the court shall issue an order or judgment compelling compliance with this section within a time period not to exceed 60 days, including, but not limited to, an order that the local agency take action on the housing development project or emergency shelter. The court may issue an order or judgment directing the local agency to approve the housing development project or emergency shelter if the
court finds that the local agency acted in bad faith when it disapproved or conditionally approved the housing development or emergency shelter in violation of this section. The court shall retain jurisdiction to ensure that its order or judgment is carried out and shall award reasonable attorney’s fees and costs of suit to the plaintiff or petitioner, provided, however, that the court shall not award attorney’s fees in either of the following instances:

(I) The court finds, under extraordinary circumstances, that awarding fees would not further the purposes of this section.

(II) (ia) In a case concerning a disapproval within the meaning of subparagraph (J) or (K) of paragraph (6) of subdivision (h), the court finds that the local agency acted in good faith and had reasonable
cause to disapprove the housing development project due to the existence of a controlling question of law about the application of the California Environmental Quality Act (Division 13 (commencing with Section 21000) of the Public Resources Code) or implementing guidelines as to which there was a substantial ground for difference of opinion at the time of the disapproval.

(ib) This subclause shall become inoperative on January 1, 2031.

(B) Upon a determination that the local agency has failed to comply with the order or judgment compelling compliance with this section within the time period prescribed by the court, the court shall impose fines on a local agency that has violated this section and require the local agency to deposit any fine levied pursuant to this subdivision
into a local housing trust fund. The local agency may elect to instead deposit the fine into the Building Homes and Jobs Trust Fund. The fine shall be in a minimum amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) per housing unit in the housing development project on the date the application was deemed complete pursuant to Section 65943. In determining the amount of the fine to impose, the court shall consider the local agency’s progress in attaining its target allocation of the regional
housing need pursuant to Section 65584 and any prior violations of this section. Fines shall not be paid out of funds already dedicated to affordable housing, including, but not limited to, Low and Moderate Income Housing Asset Funds, funds dedicated to housing for very low, low-, and moderate-income households, and federal HOME Investment Partnerships Program and Community Development Block Grant Program funds. The local agency shall commit and expend the money in the local housing trust fund within five years for the sole purpose of financing newly constructed housing units affordable to extremely low, very low, or low-income households. After five years, if the funds have not been expended, the money shall revert to the state and be deposited in the Building Homes and Jobs Trust Fund for the sole purpose of financing newly constructed housing units affordable to extremely low,
very low, or low-income households.

(C) If the court determines that its order or judgment has not been carried out within 60 days, the court may issue further orders as provided by law to ensure that the purposes and policies of this section are fulfilled, including, but not limited to, an order to vacate the decision of the local agency and to approve the housing development project, in which case the application for the housing development project, as proposed by the applicant at the time the local agency took the initial action determined to be in violation of this section, along with any standard conditions determined by the court to be generally imposed by the local agency on similar projects, shall be deemed to be approved unless the applicant consents to a different decision or action by the local agency.

(D) Nothing in this section shall limit the court’s inherent authority to make any other orders to compel the immediate enforcement of any writ brought under this section, including the imposition of fees and other sanctions set forth under Section 1097 of the Code of Civil Procedure.

(2) For purposes of this subdivision, “housing organization” means a trade or industry group whose local members are primarily engaged in the construction or management of housing units or a nonprofit organization whose mission includes providing or advocating for increased access to housing for low-income households and have filed written or oral comments with the local agency prior to action on the housing development project. A housing organization may only file an action pursuant to this section
to challenge the disapproval of a housing development by a local agency. A housing organization shall be entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees and costs if it is the prevailing party in an action to enforce this section.

(l) If the court finds that the local agency (1) acted in bad faith
when it violated this section and (2) failed to carry out the court’s order or judgment within the time period prescribed by the court, the court, in addition to any other remedies provided by this section, shall multiply the fine determined pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (k) by a factor of five. If a court has previously found that the local agency violated this section within the same planning period, the court shall multiply the fines by an additional factor for each previous violation. For purposes of this section, “bad faith” includes, but is not limited to, an action or inaction that is frivolous, pretextual, intended to cause unnecessary delay, or entirely without merit.

(m) (1) (A) Any action brought to enforce the provisions of this section shall be
brought pursuant to Section 1094.5 of the Code of Civil Procedure, and the local agency shall prepare and certify the record of proceedings in accordance with subdivision (c) of Section 1094.6 of the Code of Civil Procedure no later than 30 days after the petition is served, provided that the cost of preparation of the record shall be borne by the local agency, unless the petitioner elects to prepare the record as provided in subdivision (n) of this section.

(B) A petition to enforce the provisions of this section shall be filed and served no later than 90 days from the later of
either of the following:

(i) The effective date of a decision of the local agency imposing conditions on, disapproving, or any other final action on a housing
development.

(ii) The expiration of the time periods specified in subparagraphs (B) to (D), inclusive, of paragraph (6) of subdivision (h).

(C) Upon entry of the trial court’s order, a party may, in order to obtain appellate review of the order, file a petition within 20 days after service upon it of a written notice of the entry of the order, or within such further time not exceeding an additional 20 days as the trial court may for good cause allow, or may appeal the judgment or order of the trial court under Section 904.1 of the Code of Civil Procedure. If the local agency appeals the judgment of the trial court, the local agency shall post a bond, in an amount to be determined by the court, to the benefit of the plaintiff if the plaintiff is the
project applicant.

(2) (A) A disapproval within the meaning of subparagraph (J) of paragraph (6) of subdivision (h) shall be final for purposes of
this subdivision, if the local agency did not make a lawful determination within the time period set forth in paragraph (5) of subdivision (a) of Section 65589.5.1 after the applicant’s timely written notice.

(B) This paragraph shall become inoperative on January 1, 2031.

(3) (A) A disapproval within the meaning of subparagraph (K) of paragraph (6) of subdivision (h) shall be final for purposes of this subdivision, if the local agency did not make a lawful determination within 90 days of the applicant’s timely written notice.

(B) This paragraph shall become inoperative on January 1, 2031.

(n) In any action, the record of the
proceedings before the local agency shall be filed as expeditiously as possible and, notwithstanding Section 1094.6 of the Code of Civil Procedure or subdivision (m) of this section, all or part of the record may be prepared (1) by the petitioner with the petition or petitioner’s points and authorities, (2) by the respondent with respondent’s points and authorities, (3) after payment of costs by the petitioner, or (4) as otherwise directed by the court. If the expense of preparing the record has been borne by the petitioner and the petitioner is the prevailing party, the expense shall be taxable as costs.

(o) (1) Subject to paragraphs (2), (6), and (7), and subdivision (d) of Section 65941.1, a housing development project shall be subject only to the ordinances, policies, and standards adopted and in effect when a
preliminary application including all of the information required by subdivision (a) of Section 65941.1 was submitted.

(2) Paragraph (1) shall not prohibit a housing development project from being subject to ordinances, policies, and standards adopted after the preliminary application was submitted pursuant to Section 65941.1 in the following circumstances:

(A) In the case of a fee, charge, or other monetary exaction, to an increase resulting from an automatic annual adjustment based on an independently published cost index that is referenced in the ordinance or resolution establishing the fee or other monetary exaction.

(B) A preponderance of the evidence in the record establishes that subjecting the housing
development project to an ordinance, policy, or standard beyond those in effect when a preliminary application was submitted is necessary to mitigate or avoid a specific, adverse impact upon the public health or safety, as defined in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (j), and there is no feasible alternative method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the adverse impact.

(C) Subjecting the housing development project to an ordinance, policy, standard, or any other measure, beyond those in effect when a preliminary application was submitted is necessary to avoid or substantially lessen an impact of the project under the California Environmental Quality Act (Division 13 (commencing with Section 21000) of the Public Resources Code).

(D) The housing development project has
not commenced construction within two and one-half years, or three and one-half years for an affordable housing project, following the date that the project received final approval. For purposes of this subparagraph:

(i) “Affordable housing project” means a housing development that satisfies both of the following requirements:

(I) Units within the development are subject to a recorded affordability restriction for at least 55 years for rental housing and 45 years for owner-occupied housing, or the first purchaser of each unit participates in an equity sharing agreement as described in subparagraph (C) of paragraph (2) of subdivision (c) of Section 65915.

(II) All of the units within the development, excluding managers’ units,
are dedicated to lower income households, as defined by Section 50079.5 of the Health and Safety Code.

(ii) “Final approval” means that the housing development project has received all necessary approvals to be eligible to apply for, and obtain, a building permit or permits and either of the following is met:

(I) The expiration of all applicable appeal periods, petition periods, reconsideration periods, or statute of limitations for challenging that final approval without an appeal, petition, request for reconsideration, or legal challenge having been filed.

(II) If a challenge is filed, that challenge is fully resolved or settled in favor of the housing development project.

(E) The housing development project is revised following submittal of a preliminary application pursuant to Section 65941.1 such that the number of residential units or square footage of construction changes by 20 percent or more, exclusive of any increase resulting from the receipt of a density bonus, incentive, concession, waiver, or similar provision, including any other locally authorized program that offers additional density or other development bonuses when affordable housing is provided. For purposes of this subdivision, “square footage of construction” means the building area, as defined by the California Building Standards Code (Title 24 of the California Code of Regulations).

(3) This subdivision does not prevent a local agency from subjecting the additional units or square footage of construction that result from project
revisions occurring after a preliminary application is submitted pursuant to Section 65941.1 to the ordinances, policies, and standards adopted and in effect when the preliminary application was submitted.

(4) For purposes of this subdivision, “ordinances, policies, and standards” includes general plan, community plan, specific plan, zoning, design review standards and criteria, subdivision standards and criteria, and any other rules, regulations, requirements, and policies of a local agency, as defined in Section 66000, including those relating to development impact fees, capacity or connection
fees or charges, permit or processing fees, and other exactions.

(5) This subdivision shall not be construed in a manner that would lessen the restrictions imposed on a local agency, or lessen the protections afforded to a housing development project, that are established by any other law, including any other part of this section.

(6) This subdivision shall not restrict the authority of a public agency or local agency to require mitigation measures to lessen the impacts of a housing development project under the California Environmental Quality Act (Division 13 (commencing with Section 21000) of the Public Resources Code).

(7) With respect to completed residential units for which the project approval
process is complete and a certificate of occupancy has been issued, nothing in this subdivision shall limit the
application of later enacted ordinances, policies, and standards that regulate the use and occupancy of those residential units, such as ordinances relating to rental housing inspection, rent stabilization, restrictions on short-term renting, and business licensing requirements for owners of rental housing.

(p) (1) Upon any motion for an award of attorney’s fees pursuant to Section 1021.5 of the Code of Civil Procedure, in a case challenging a local agency’s approval of a housing development project, a court, in weighing whether a significant benefit has been conferred on the general public or a large class of persons and whether the necessity of private enforcement makes the award appropriate, shall give due weight to the degree to which the local agency’s approval furthers policies of this section, including,
but not limited to, subdivisions (a), (b), and (c), the suitability of the site for a housing development, and the reasonableness of the decision of the local agency. It is the intent of the Legislature that attorney’s fees and costs shall rarely, if ever, be awarded if a local agency, acting in good faith, approved a housing development project that satisfies conditions established in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of subdivision (a) of Section 65589.5.1 or paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of subdivision (a) of Section 65589.5.2.

(2) This subdivision shall become inoperative on January 1, 2031.

(q) This section shall be known, and may be cited, as the Housing Accountability Act.

(r) The provisions of this section are severable. If
any provision of this section or its application is held invalid, that invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications that can be given effect without the invalid provision or application.

SEC. 2.5.
Section 65589.5 of the Government Code is amended to read:

65589.5.
(a) (1) The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:

(A) The lack of housing, including emergency shelters, is a critical problem that threatens the economic, environmental, and social quality of life in California.

(B) California housing has become the most expensive in the nation. The excessive cost of the state’s housing supply is partially caused by activities and policies of many local governments that limit the approval of housing, increase the cost of land for housing, and require that high fees and exactions be paid by producers of housing.

(C) Among the consequences of those actions are
discrimination against low-income and minority households, lack of housing to support employment growth, imbalance in jobs and housing, reduced mobility, urban sprawl, excessive commuting, and air quality deterioration.

(D) Many local governments do not give adequate attention to the economic, environmental, and social costs of decisions that result in disapproval of housing development projects, reduction in density of housing projects, and excessive standards for housing development projects.

(2) In enacting the amendments made to this section by the act adding this paragraph, the Legislature further finds and declares the following:

(A) California has a housing supply and affordability crisis of historic proportions. The consequences of failing to effectively and aggressively confront this crisis are hurting
millions of Californians, robbing future generations of the chance to call California home, stifling economic opportunities for workers and businesses, worsening poverty and homelessness, and undermining the state’s environmental and climate objectives.

(B) While the causes of this crisis are multiple and complex, the absence of meaningful and effective policy reforms to significantly enhance the approval and supply of housing affordable to Californians of all income levels is a key factor.

(C) The crisis has grown so acute in California that supply, demand, and affordability fundamentals are characterized in the negative: underserved demands, constrained supply, and protracted unaffordability.

(D) According to reports and data, California has accumulated an unmet housing backlog of nearly 2,000,000 units and must
provide for at least 180,000 new units annually to keep pace with growth through 2025.

(E) California’s overall home ownership rate is at its lowest level since the 1940s. The state ranks 49th out of the 50 states in home ownership rates as well as in the supply of housing per capita. Only one-half of California’s households are able to afford the cost of housing in their local regions.

(F) Lack of supply and rising costs are compounding inequality and limiting advancement opportunities for many Californians.

(G) The majority of California renters, more than 3,000,000 households, pay more than 30 percent of their income toward rent and nearly one-third, more than 1,500,000 households, pay more than 50 percent of their income toward rent.

(H) When
Californians have access to safe and affordable housing, they have more money for food and health care; they are less likely to become homeless and in need of government-subsidized services; their children do better in school; and businesses have an easier time recruiting and retaining employees.

(I) An additional consequence of the state’s cumulative housing shortage is a significant increase in greenhouse gas emissions caused by the displacement and redirection of populations to states with greater housing opportunities, particularly working- and middle-class households. California’s cumulative housing shortfall therefore has not only national but international environmental consequences.

(J) California’s housing picture has reached a crisis of historic proportions despite the fact that, for decades, the Legislature has enacted numerous statutes intended to significantly
increase the approval, development, and affordability of housing for all income levels, including this section.

(K) The Legislature’s intent in enacting this section in 1982 and in expanding its provisions since then was to significantly increase the approval and construction of new housing for all economic segments of California’s communities by meaningfully and effectively curbing the capability of local governments to deny, reduce the density for, or render infeasible housing development projects and emergency shelters. That intent has not been fulfilled.

(L) It is the policy of the state that this section be interpreted and implemented in a manner to afford the fullest possible weight to the interest of, and the approval and provision of, housing.

(3) It is the intent of the Legislature that the conditions that
would have a specific, adverse impact upon the public health and safety, as described in paragraph (2) of subdivision (d) and paragraph (1) of subdivision (j), arise infrequently.

(4) It is the intent of the Legislature that the amendments removing provisions from subparagraphs (D) and (E) of paragraph (6) of subdivision (h) and adding those provisions to Sections 65589.5.1 and 65589.5.2 by Assembly Bill 1413 (2023), insofar as they are substantially the same as existing law, shall be considered restatements and continuations of existing law, and not new enactments.

(b) It is the policy of the state that a local government not reject or make infeasible housing development projects, including emergency shelters, that contribute to meeting the need determined pursuant to this article without a thorough analysis of the economic, social, and environmental effects of the action and
without complying with subdivision (d).

(c) The Legislature also recognizes that premature and unnecessary development of agricultural lands for urban uses continues to have adverse effects on the availability of those lands for food and fiber production and on the economy of the state. Furthermore, it is the policy of the state that development should be guided away from prime agricultural lands; therefore, in implementing this section, local jurisdictions should encourage, to the maximum extent practicable, in filling existing urban areas.

(d) For a housing development project for very low, low-, or moderate-income households, or an emergency shelter, a local agency shall not disapprove the housing development project or emergency shelter, or condition approval in a manner that renders the housing development project or emergency shelter infeasible, including through the use of
design review standards, unless it makes written findings, based upon a preponderance of the evidence in the record, as to one of the following:

(1) The jurisdiction has adopted a housing element pursuant to this article that has been revised in accordance with Section 65588, is in substantial compliance with this article, and the jurisdiction has met or exceeded its share of the regional housing need allocation pursuant to Section 65584 for the planning period for the income category proposed for the housing development project, provided that any disapproval or conditional approval shall not be based on any of the reasons prohibited by Section 65008. If the housing development project includes a mix of income categories, and the jurisdiction has not met or exceeded its share of the regional housing need for one or more of those categories, then this paragraph shall not be used to disapprove or conditionally approve the housing development
project. The share of the regional housing need met by the jurisdiction shall be calculated consistently with the forms and definitions that may be adopted by the Department of Housing and Community Development pursuant to Section 65400. In the case of an emergency shelter, the jurisdiction shall have met or exceeded the need for emergency shelter, as identified pursuant to paragraph (7) of subdivision (a) of Section 65583. Any disapproval or conditional approval pursuant to this paragraph shall be in accordance with applicable law, rule, or standards.

(2) The housing development project or emergency shelter as proposed would have a specific, adverse impact upon the public health or safety, and there is no feasible method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the specific, adverse impact without rendering the development unaffordable to low- and moderate-income households or rendering the development of the emergency shelter financially
infeasible. As used in this paragraph, a “specific, adverse impact” means a significant, quantifiable, direct, and unavoidable impact, based on objective, identified written public health or safety standards, policies, or conditions as they existed on the date the application was deemed complete. The following shall not constitute a specific, adverse impact upon the public health or safety:

(A) Inconsistency with the zoning ordinance or general plan land use designation.

(B) The eligibility to claim a welfare exemption under subdivision (g) of Section 214 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(3) The denial of the housing development project or imposition of conditions is required in order to comply with specific state or federal law, and there is no feasible method to comply without rendering the development
unaffordable to low- and moderate-income households or rendering the development of the emergency shelter financially infeasible.

(4) The housing development project or emergency shelter is proposed on land zoned for agriculture or resource preservation that is surrounded on at least two sides by land being used for agricultural or resource preservation purposes, or which does not have adequate water or wastewater facilities to serve the project.

(5) On the date an application for the housing development project or emergency shelter was deemed complete, the jurisdiction had adopted a revised housing element that was in substantial compliance with this article, and the housing development project or emergency shelter was inconsistent with both the jurisdiction’s zoning ordinance and general plan land use designation as specified in any element of the general plan.

(A) This paragraph shall not be utilized to disapprove or conditionally approve a housing development project proposed on a site, including a candidate site for rezoning, that is identified as suitable or available for very low, low-, or moderate-income households in the jurisdiction’s housing element if the housing development project is consistent with the density specified in the housing element, even though the housing development project was inconsistent with both the jurisdiction’s zoning ordinance and general plan land use designation on the date the application was deemed complete.

(B) If the local agency has failed to identify a zone or zones where emergency shelters are allowed as a permitted use without a conditional use or other discretionary permit, has failed to demonstrate that the identified zone or zones include sufficient capacity to accommodate the need for
emergency shelter identified in paragraph (7) of subdivision (a) of Section 65583, or has failed to demonstrate that the identified zone or zones can accommodate at least one emergency shelter, as required by paragraph (4) of subdivision (a) of Section 65583, then this paragraph shall not be utilized to disapprove or conditionally approve an emergency shelter proposed for a site designated in any element of the general plan for industrial, commercial, or multifamily residential uses. In any action in court, the burden of proof shall be on the local agency to show that its housing element does satisfy the requirements of paragraph (4) of subdivision (a) of Section 65583.

(6) On the date an application for the housing development project or emergency shelter was deemed complete, the jurisdiction did not have an adopted revised housing element that was in substantial compliance with this article and the housing development project is not a
builder’s remedy project.

(e) Nothing in this section shall be construed to relieve the local agency from complying with the congestion management program required by Chapter 2.6 (commencing with Section 65088) or the California Coastal Act of 1976 (Division 20 (commencing with Section 30000) of the Public Resources Code). Neither shall anything in this section be construed to relieve the local agency from making one or more of the findings required pursuant to Section 21081 of the Public Resources Code or otherwise complying with the California Environmental Quality Act (Division 13 (commencing with Section 21000) of the Public Resources Code).

(f) (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (6) and
(8), and subdivision (o), nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit a local agency from requiring the housing development project to comply with objective, quantifiable, written development standards, conditions, and policies appropriate to, and consistent with, meeting the jurisdiction’s share of the regional housing need pursuant to Section 65584. However, the development standards, conditions, and policies shall be applied to facilitate and accommodate development at the density permitted on the site and proposed by the development. Nothing in this section shall limit a project’s eligibility for a density bonus, incentive, or concession, or waiver or reduction of development standards and parking ratios, pursuant to Section 65915.

(2) Except as provided in subdivision (o), nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit a local agency from requiring an emergency shelter project
to comply with objective, quantifiable, written development standards, conditions, and policies that are consistent with paragraph (4) of subdivision (a) of Section 65583 and appropriate to, and consistent with, meeting the jurisdiction’s need for emergency shelter, as identified pursuant to paragraph (7) of subdivision (a) of Section 65583. However, the development standards, conditions, and policies shall be applied by the local agency to facilitate and accommodate the development of the emergency shelter project.

(3) Except as provided in subdivision (o), nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit a local agency from imposing fees and other exactions otherwise authorized by law that are essential to provide necessary public services and facilities to the housing development project or emergency shelter.

(4) For purposes of this section, a housing development project
or emergency shelter shall be deemed consistent, compliant, and in conformity with an applicable plan, program, policy, ordinance, standard, requirement, or other similar provision if there is substantial evidence that would allow a reasonable person to conclude that the housing development project or emergency shelter is consistent, compliant, or in conformity.

(5) For purposes of this section, a change to the zoning ordinance or general plan land use designation subsequent to the date the application was deemed complete shall not constitute a valid basis to disapprove or condition approval of the housing development project or emergency shelter.

(6) Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) to (5), inclusive, all of the following apply to a housing development project that is a builder’s remedy project:

(A) A local agency may
only require the project to comply with the objective, quantifiable, written development standards, conditions, and policies that would have applied to the project had it been proposed on a site with a general plan designation and zoning classification that allow the density and unit type proposed by the applicant. If the local agency has no general plan designation or zoning classification that would have allowed the density and unit type proposed by the applicant, the development proponent may identify any objective, quantifiable, written development standards, conditions, and policies associated with a different general plan designation or zoning classification within that jurisdiction, that facilitate the project’s density and unit type, and those shall apply.

(B) (i) Except as authorized by paragraphs (1) to (4), inclusive, of subdivision (d), a local agency shall not apply any individual or combination of objective,
quantifiable, written development standards, conditions, and policies to the project that do any of the following:

(I) Render the project infeasible.

(II) Preclude a project that meets the requirements allowed to be imposed by subparagraph (A), as modified by any density bonus, incentive, or concession, or waiver or reduction of development standards and parking ratios, pursuant to Section 65915, from being constructed as proposed by the applicant.

(ii) The local agency shall bear the burden of proof of complying with clause (i).

(C) (i) A project applicant that qualifies for a density bonus pursuant to Section 65915 shall receive two incentives or concessions in addition to those granted pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision
(d) of Section 65915.

(ii) For a project seeking density bonuses, incentives, concessions, or any other benefits pursuant to Section 65915, and notwithstanding paragraph (6) of subdivision (o) of Section 65915, for purposes of this paragraph, maximum allowable residential density or base density means the density permitted for a builder’s remedy project pursuant to subparagraph (C) of paragraph (11) of subdivision (h).

(iii) A local agency shall grant any density bonus pursuant to Section 65915 based on the number of units proposed and allowable pursuant to subparagraph (C) of paragraph (11) of subdivision (h).

(iv) A project that dedicates units to extremely
low income households pursuant to subclause (I) of clause (i) of subparagraph (C) of paragraph (3) of subdivision (h) shall be eligible for the same density bonus, incentives or concessions, and waivers or reductions of development standards as provided to a housing development project that dedicates three percentage points more units to very low income households pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (f) of Section 65915.

(v) All units dedicated to extremely
low income, very low income, low-income, and moderate-income households pursuant to paragraph (11) of subdivision (h) shall be counted as affordable units in determining whether the applicant qualifies for a density bonus pursuant to Section 65915.

(D) (i) The project shall not be required to apply for, or receive approval of, a general plan amendment, specific plan amendment, rezoning, or other legislative approval.

(ii) The project shall not be required to apply for, or receive, any approval or permit not generally required of a project of the same type and density proposed by the applicant.

(iii) Any project that complies with this paragraph shall be deemed consistent, compliant, and in conformity with an applicable plan, program, policy, ordinance,
standard, requirement, redevelopment plan and implementing instruments, or other similar provision for all purposes, and shall not be considered or treated as a nonconforming lot, use, or structure for any purpose.

(E) A local agency shall not adopt or impose any requirement, process, practice, or procedure or undertake any course of conduct, including, but not limited to, increased fees or inclusionary housing requirements, that applies to a project solely or partially on the basis that the project is a builder’s remedy project.

(F) (i) A builder’s remedy project shall be deemed to be in compliance with the residential density standards for the purposes of complying with subdivision (b) of Section 65912.123.

(ii) A builder’s remedy project shall be deemed to be in compliance with the objective
zoning standards, objective subdivision standards, and objective design review standards for the purposes of complying with paragraph (5) of subdivision (a) of Section 65913.4.

(G) (i) (I) If the local agency had a local affordable housing requirement, as defined in Section 65912.101, that on January 1, 2024, required a greater percentage of affordable units than required under subparagraph (A) of paragraph (11) of subdivision (h), or required an affordability level deeper than what is required under subparagraph (A) of paragraph (11) of subdivision (h), then, except as provided in subclauses (II) and (III), the local agency may require a housing development for mixed-income households to comply with an otherwise lawfully applicable local affordability percentage or affordability level. The local agency shall not require housing for mixed-income households to comply with any other aspect of the local
affordable housing requirement.

(II) Notwithstanding subclause (I), the local affordable housing requirements shall not be applied to require housing for mixed-income households to dedicate more than 20 percent of the units to affordable units of any kind.

(III) Housing for mixed-income households that is required to dedicate 20 percent of the units to affordable units shall not be required to dedicate any of the affordable units at an income level deeper than lower income households, as defined in Section 50079.5 of the Health and Safety Code.

(IV) A local agency may only require housing for mixed-income households to comply with the local percentage requirement or affordability level described in subclause (I) if it first makes written findings, supported by a preponderance of evidence, that compliance with the
local percentage requirement or the affordability level, or both, would not render the housing development project infeasible. If a reasonable person could find compliance with either requirement, either alone or in combination, would render the project infeasible, the project shall not be required to comply with that requirement.

(ii) Affordable units in the development project shall have a comparable bedroom and bathroom count as the market rate units.

(iii) Each affordable unit dedicated pursuant to this subparagraph shall count toward satisfying a local affordable housing requirement. Each affordable unit dedicated pursuant to a local affordable housing requirement that meets the criteria established in this subparagraph shall count towards satisfying the requirements of this subparagraph. This is declaratory of existing law.

(7) (A) For a housing development project application that is deemed complete before January 1, 2025, the development proponent for the project may choose to be subject to the provisions of this section that were in place on the date the preliminary application was submitted, or, if the project meets the definition of a builder’s remedy project, it may choose to be subject to any or all of the provisions of this section applicable as of January 1, 2025.

(B) Notwithstanding subdivision (c) of Section 65941.1, for a housing development project deemed complete before January 1, 2025, the development proponent may choose to revise their application so that the project is a builder’s remedy project, without being required to resubmit a preliminary application, even if the revision results in the number of residential units or square footage of construction changing by 20 percent or more.

(8) A housing development project proposed on a site that is identified as suitable or available for very low, low-, or moderate-income households in the jurisdiction’s housing element, that is consistent with the density specified in the most recently updated and adopted housing element, and that is inconsistent with both the jurisdiction’s zoning ordinance and general plan land use designation on the date the application was deemed complete, shall be subject to the provisions of subparagraphs (A), (B), and (D) of paragraph (6) and paragraph (9).

(9) For purposes of this subdivision, “objective, quantifiable, written development standards, conditions, and policies” means criteria that involve no personal or subjective judgment by a public official and are uniformly verifiable by reference to an external and uniform benchmark or criterion available and knowable by both the
development applicant or proponent and the public official before submittal, including, but not limited to, any standard, ordinance, or policy described in paragraph (4) of subdivision (o). Nothing herein shall affect the obligation of the housing development project to comply with the minimum building standards approved by the California Building Standards Commission as provided in Part 2.5 (commencing with Section 18901) of Division 13 of the Health and Safety Code. In the event that applicable objective, quantifiable, written development standards, conditions, and policies are mutually inconsistent, a development shall be deemed consistent with the criteria that permits the density and unit type closest to that of the proposed project.

(g) This section shall be applicable to charter cities because the Legislature finds that the lack of housing, including emergency shelter, is a critical statewide problem.

(h) The following definitions apply for the purposes of this section:

(1) “Feasible” means capable of being accomplished in a successful manner within a reasonable period of time, taking into account economic, environmental, social, and technological factors.

(2) “Housing development project” means a use consisting of any of the following:

(A) Residential units only.

(B) Mixed-use developments consisting of residential and nonresidential uses that meet any of the following conditions:

(i) A mixed-use development that meets both of the following:

(I) At least
two-thirds of the new or converted square footage is designated for residential use.

(II) (ia) No portion of the project is designated for use as a hotel, motel, bed and breakfast inn, or other transient lodging.

(ib) (Ia) Notwithstanding sub-subclause (ia), if a mixed-use project as defined in this paragraph includes a hotel, motel, bed and breakfast inn, or other transient lodging, the portion of the mixed-use project which does not include a hotel, motel, bed and breakfast inn, or other transient lodging shall be considered a housing development project.

(Ib) The local agency may separately approve the portion of the project that includes a hotel, motel, bed and breakfast inn, or other transient lodging, which shall not be eligible for any benefits conferred on a housing
development project by state law, including, but not limited to, those available to a development under Section 65913.4.

(ic) For purposes of this subclause, the term “other transient lodging” does not include either of the following:

(Ia) A residential hotel, as defined in Section 50519 of the Health and Safety Code.

(Ib) After the issuance of a certificate of occupancy, a resident’s use or marketing of a unit as short-term lodging, as defined in Section 17568.8 of the Business and Professions Code, in a manner consistent with local law.

(ii) At least 50
percent of the new or converted square footage is designated for residential use and the project meets both of the following:

(I) The project includes at least 500 net new residential units.

(II) No portion of the project is designated for use as a hotel, motel, bed and breakfast inn, or other transient lodging, except a portion of the project may be designated for use as a residential hotel, as defined in Section 50519 of the Health and Safety Code.

(iii) At least 50 percent of the net new or converted square footage is designated for residential use and the project meets all of the following:

(I) The project includes at least 500 net new residential units.

(II) The project involves the
demolition or conversion of at least 100,000 square feet of nonresidential use.

(III) The project demolishes at least 50 percent of the existing nonresidential uses on the site.

(IV) No portion of the project is designated for use as a hotel, motel, bed and breakfast inn, or other transient lodging, except a portion of the project may be designated for use as a residential hotel, as defined in Section 50519 of the Health and Safety Code.

(C) Transitional housing or supportive housing.

(D) Farmworker housing, as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code.

(3) (A) “Housing for very low, low-, or moderate-income households” means housing
for lower income households, mixed-income households, or moderate-income households.

(B) “Housing for lower income households” means a housing development project in which 100 percent of the units, excluding managers’ units, are dedicated to lower income households, as defined in Section 50079.5 of the Health and Safety Code, at an affordable cost, as defined by Section 50052.5 of the Health and Safety Code, or an affordable rent set in an amount consistent with the rent limits established by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee. The units shall be subject to a recorded deed restriction for a period of 55 years for rental units and 45 years for owner-occupied units.

(C) (i) “Housing for mixed-income households” means any of the following:

(I) A housing development project in which at
least 7 percent of the total units, as defined in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (9) of subdivision (o) of Section 65915, are dedicated to extremely low income households, as defined in Section 50106 of the Health and Safety Code.

(II) A housing development project in which at least 10 percent of the total units, as defined in subparagraph (A) of paragraph
(9) of subdivision (o) of Section 65915, are dedicated to very low income households, as defined in Section 50105 of the Health and Safety Code.

(III) A housing development project in which at least 13 percent of the total units, as defined in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (9) of subdivision (o) of Section 65915, are dedicated to lower income households, as defined in Section 50079.5 of the Health and Safety Code.

(IV) A housing development project in which there are 10 or fewer total units, as defined in subparagraph (A) of paragraph
(9) of subdivision (o) of Section 65915, that is on a site that is smaller than one acre, and that is proposed for development at a minimum density of 10 units per acre.

(ii) All units dedicated to extremely low income, very low income, and low-income households pursuant to clause (i) shall meet both of the following:

(I) The units shall have an affordable housing cost, as defined in Section 50052.5 of the Health and Safety Code, or an affordable rent, as defined in Section 50053 of the Health and Safety Code.

(II) The development proponent shall agree to, and the local agency shall ensure, the continued affordability of all affordable rental units included pursuant to this section for 55 years and all affordable ownership units included pursuant to this section for a period
of 45 years.

(D) “Housing for moderate-income households” means a housing development project in which 100 percent of the units are sold or rented to moderate-income households, as defined in Section 50093 of the Health and Safety Code, at an affordable housing cost, as defined in Section 50052.5 of the Health and Safety Code, or an affordable rent, as defined in Section 50053 of the Health and Safety Code. The units shall be subject to a recorded deed restriction for a period of 55 years for rental units and 45 years for owner-occupied units.

(4) “Area median income” means area median income as periodically established by the Department of Housing and Community Development pursuant to Section 50093 of the Health and Safety Code.

(5) Notwithstanding any other law, “deemed complete” means that the applicant has
submitted a preliminary application pursuant to Section 65941.1 or, if the applicant has not submitted a preliminary application, has submitted a complete application pursuant to Section 65943. The local agency shall bear the burden of proof in establishing that the application is not complete.

(6) “Disapprove the housing development project” includes any instance in which a local agency does any of the following:

(A) Votes or takes final administrative action on a proposed housing development project application and the application is disapproved, including any required land use approvals or entitlements necessary for the issuance of a building permit.

(B) Fails to comply with the time periods specified in subdivision (a) of Section 65950. An extension of time pursuant to Article 5 (commencing with Section 65950)
of Chapter 4.5 shall be deemed to be an extension of time pursuant to this paragraph.

(C) Fails to comply with subdivisions (b) to (e), inclusive, of Section 65913.3.

(D) Fails to meet the time limit specified in Section 17970.3 of the Health and Safety Code.

(E) Fails to cease a course of conduct undertaken for an improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increases in the cost of the proposed housing development project, that effectively disapproves the proposed housing development without taking final administrative
action if all of the following conditions are met:

(i) The project applicant provides written notice detailing the challenged conduct and why it constitutes disapproval to the local agency established under Section 65100.

(ii) Within five working days of receiving the applicant’s written notice described in clause (i), the local agency shall post the notice on the local agency’s internet website, provide a copy of the notice to any person who has made a written request for notices pursuant to subdivision (f) of Section 21167 of the Public Resources Code, and file the notice with the county clerk of each county in which the project will be located. The county clerk shall post the notice and make it available for public inspection in the manner set forth in subdivision (c) of Section 21152 of the Public Resources Code.

(iii) The local agency shall consider all objections, comments, evidence, and concerns about the project or the applicant’s written notice and shall not make a determination until at least 60 days after the applicant has given written notice to the local agency pursuant to clause (i).

(iv) Within 90 days of receipt of the applicant’s written notice described in clause (i), the local agency shall issue a written statement that it will immediately cease the challenged conduct or issue written findings that comply with both of the following requirements:

(I) The findings articulate an objective basis for why the challenged course of conduct is necessary.

(II) The findings provide clear instructions on what the applicant must submit or supplement so that the local agency can make a final determination
regarding the next necessary approval or set the date and time of the next hearing.

(v) (I) If a local agency continues the challenged course of conduct described in the applicant’s written notice and fails to issue the written findings described in clause (iv), the local agency shall bear the burden of establishing that its course of conduct does not constitute a disapproval of the housing development project under this subparagraph in an action taken by the applicant.

(II) If an applicant challenges a local agency’s course of conduct as a disapproval under this subparagraph, the local agency’s written findings described in clause (iv) shall be incorporated into the administrative record and be deemed to be the final administrative action for purposes of adjudicating whether the local agency’s course of conduct constitutes a disapproval of the housing
development project under this subparagraph.

(vi) A local agency’s action in furtherance of complying with the California Environmental Quality Act (Division 13 (commencing with Section 21000) of the Public Resources Code), including, but not limited to, imposing mitigating measures, shall not constitute project disapproval under this subparagraph.

(F) Fails to comply with Section 65905.5. For purposes of this subparagraph, a builder’s remedy project shall be deemed to comply with the applicable, objective general plan and zoning standards in effect at the time an application is deemed complete.

(G) (i) Determines that an application for a housing development project is incomplete pursuant to subdivision (a) or (b) of Section 65943 and includes in the determination an item that is not required
on the local agency’s submittal requirement checklist. The local agency shall bear the burden of proof that the required item is listed on the submittal requirement checklist.

(ii) In a subsequent review of an application pursuant to Section 65943, requests the applicant provide new information that was not identified in the initial determination and upholds this determination in the final written determination on an appeal filed pursuant to subdivision (c) of Section 65943. The local agency shall bear the burden of proof that the required item was identified in the initial determination.

(iii) Determines that an application for a housing development project is incomplete pursuant to subdivision (a) or (b) of Section 65943, a reasonable person would conclude that the applicant has submitted all of the items required on the local agency’s submittal requirement checklist, and the
local agency upholds this determination in the final written determination on an appeal filed pursuant to subdivision (c) of Section 65943.

(iv) If a local agency determines that an application is incomplete under Section 65943 after two resubmittals of the application by the applicant, the local agency shall bear the burden of establishing that the determination is not an effective disapproval of a housing development project under this section.

(H) Violates subparagraph (D) or (E) of paragraph (6) of subdivision (f).

(I) Makes a written determination that a preliminary application described in subdivision (a) of Section 65941.1 has expired or that the applicant has otherwise lost its vested rights under the preliminary application for any reason other than those described in
subdivisions (d) and (e) of Section 65941.1.

(J) (i) Fails to make a determination of whether the project is exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act (Division 13 (commencing with Section 21000) of the Public Resources Code), or commits an abuse of discretion, as defined in subdivision (b) of Section 65589.5.1 if all of the conditions in Section 65589.5.1 are satisfied.

(ii) This subparagraph shall become inoperative on January 1, 2031.

(K) (i) Fails to adopt a negative declaration or addendum for the project, to certify an environmental impact report for the project, or to approve another comparable environmental document, such as a sustainable communities environmental assessment pursuant to Section 21155.2 of the
Public Resources Code, as required pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act (Division 13 (commencing with Section 21000) of the Public Resources Code), if all of the conditions in Section 65589.5.2 are satisfied.

(ii) This subparagraph shall become inoperative on January 1, 2031.

(7) (A) For purposes of this section and Sections 65589.5.1 and 65589.5.2, “lawful determination” means any final decision about whether to approve or disapprove a statutory or categorical exemption or a negative declaration, addendum, environmental impact report, or comparable environmental review document under the California Environmental Quality Act (Division 13 (commencing with Section 21000) of the Public Resources Code) that is not an abuse of discretion, as defined in subdivision (b) of Section 65589.5.1 or subdivision (b) of Section 65589.5.2.

(B) This paragraph shall become inoperative on January 1, 2031.

(8) “Lower density” includes any conditions that have the same effect or impact on the ability of the project to provide housing.

(9) “Objective” means involving no personal or subjective judgment by a public official and being uniformly verifiable by reference to an external and uniform benchmark or criterion available and knowable by both the development applicant or proponent and the public official.

(10) Notwithstanding any other law, “determined to be complete” means that the applicant has submitted a complete application pursuant to Section 65943.

(11) “Builder’s remedy project” means a project that meets all of the
following criteria:

(A) The project is a housing development project that provides housing for very low, low-, or moderate-income households.

(B) On or after the date an application for the housing development project or emergency shelter was deemed complete, the jurisdiction did not have a housing element that was in substantial compliance with this article.

(C) The project has a density such that the number of units, as calculated before the application of a density bonus pursuant to Section 65915, complies with all of the following conditions:

(i) The density does not exceed the greatest of the following densities:

(I) Fifty percent greater than the minimum density deemed appropriate to
accommodate housing for that jurisdiction as specified in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (3) of subdivision (c) of Section 65583.2.

(II) Three times the density allowed by the general plan, zoning ordinance, or state law, whichever is greater.

(III) The density that is consistent with the density specified in the housing element.

(ii) Notwithstanding clause (i), the greatest allowable density shall be 35 units per acre more than the amount allowable pursuant to clause (i), if any portion of the site is located within any of the following:

(I) One-half mile of a major transit stop, as defined in Section 21064.3 of the Public Resources Code.

(II) A very low vehicle travel area, as defined in
subdivision (b) of Section 65589.5.1.

(III) A high or highest resource census tract, as identified by the latest edition of the “CTCAC/HCD Opportunity Map” published by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and the Department of Housing and Community Development.

(D) (i) On sites that have a minimum density requirement and are located within one-half mile of a commuter rail station or a heavy rail station, the density of the project shall not be less than the minimum density required on the site.

(I) For purposes of this subparagraph, “commuter rail” means a railway that is not a light rail, streetcar, trolley, or tramway and that is for urban passenger train service consisting of local short distance travel operating between a central city and adjacent suburb with service operated on a
regular basis by or under contract with a transit operator for the purpose of transporting passengers within urbanized areas, or between urbanized areas and outlying areas, using either locomotive-hauled or self-propelled railroad passenger cars, with multitrip tickets and specific station-to-station fares.

(II) For purposes of this subparagraph, “heavy rail” means an electric railway with the capacity for a heavy volume of traffic using high speed and rapid acceleration passenger rail cars operating singly or in multicar trains on fixed rails, separate rights-of-way from which all other vehicular and foot traffic are excluded, and high platform loading.

(ii) On all other sites with a minimum density requirement, the density of the project shall not be less than the local agency’s minimum density or one-half of the minimum density deemed appropriate to accommodate housing for that
jurisdiction as specified in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (3) of subdivision (c) of Section 65583.2, whichever is lower.

(E) The project site does not abut a site where more than one-third of the square footage on the site has been used, within the past three years, by a heavy industrial use, or a Title V industrial use, as those terms are defined in Section 65913.16.

(12) “Condition approval” includes imposing on the housing development project, or attempting to subject it to, development standards, conditions, or policies.

(13) “Unit type” means the form of ownership and the kind of residential unit, including, but not limited to, single-family detached, single-family attached, for-sale, rental, multifamily, townhouse, condominium, apartment, manufactured homes and mobilehomes, factory-built housing, and
residential hotel.

(14) “Proposed by the applicant” means the plans and designs as submitted by the applicant, including, but not limited to, density, unit size, unit type, site plan, building massing, floor area ratio, amenity areas, open space, parking, and ancillary commercial uses.

(i) If any city, county, or city and county denies approval or imposes conditions, including design changes, lower density, or a reduction of the percentage of a lot that may be occupied by a building or structure under the applicable planning and zoning in force at the time the housing development project’s application is complete, that have a substantial adverse effect on the viability or affordability of a housing development for very low, low-, or moderate-income households, and the denial of the development or the imposition of conditions on the development is the subject of a court action
which challenges the denial or the imposition of conditions, then the burden of proof shall be on the local legislative body to show that its decision is consistent with the findings as described in subdivision (d), and that the findings are supported by a preponderance of the evidence in the record, and with the requirements of subdivision (o).

(j) (1) When a proposed housing development project complies with applicable, objective general plan, zoning, and subdivision standards and criteria, including design review standards, in effect at the time that the application was deemed complete, but the local agency proposes to disapprove the project or to impose a condition that the project be developed at a lower density, the local agency shall base its decision regarding the proposed housing development project upon written findings supported by a preponderance of the evidence on the record that both of the following
conditions exist:

(A) The housing development project would have a specific, adverse impact upon the public health or safety unless the project is disapproved or approved upon the condition that the project be developed at a lower density. As used in this paragraph, a “specific, adverse impact” means a significant, quantifiable, direct, and unavoidable impact, based on objective, identified written public health or safety standards, policies, or conditions as they existed on the date the application was deemed complete.

(B) There is no feasible method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the adverse impact identified pursuant to paragraph (1), other than the disapproval of the housing development project or the approval of the project upon the condition that it be developed at a lower density.

(2) (A) If the local agency considers a proposed housing development project to be inconsistent, not in compliance, or not in conformity with an applicable plan, program, policy, ordinance, standard, requirement, or other similar provision as specified in this subdivision, it shall provide the applicant with written documentation identifying the provision or provisions, and an explanation of the reason or reasons it considers the housing development to be inconsistent, not in compliance, or not in conformity as follows:

(i) Within 30 days of the date that the application for the housing development project is determined to be complete, if the housing development project contains 150 or fewer housing units.

(ii) Within 60 days of the date that the application for the housing development project is determined to be complete, if the housing development project contains more
than 150 units.

(B) If the local agency fails to provide the required documentation pursuant to subparagraph (A), the housing development project shall be deemed consistent, compliant, and in conformity with the applicable plan, program, policy, ordinance, standard, requirement, or other similar provision.

(3) For purposes of this section, the receipt of a density bonus, incentive, concession, waiver, or reduction of development standards pursuant to Section 65915 shall not constitute a valid basis on which to find a proposed housing development project is inconsistent, not in compliance, or not in conformity, with an applicable plan, program, policy, ordinance, standard, requirement, or other similar provision specified in this subdivision.

(4) For purposes of this section, a proposed housing development project is
not inconsistent with the applicable zoning standards and criteria, and shall not require a rezoning, if the housing development project is consistent with the objective general plan standards and criteria but the zoning for the project site is inconsistent with the general plan. If the local agency has complied with paragraph (2), the local agency may require the proposed housing development project to comply with the objective standards and criteria of the zoning which is consistent with the general plan, however, the standards and criteria shall be applied to facilitate and accommodate development at the density allowed on the site by the general plan and proposed by the proposed housing development project.

(k) (1) (A) (i) The applicant, a person who would be eligible to apply for residency in the housing development project or emergency shelter, or a housing organization may
bring an action to enforce this section. If, in any action brought to enforce this section, a court finds that any of the following are met, the court shall issue an order pursuant to clause (ii):

(I) The local agency, in violation of subdivision (d), disapproved a housing development project or conditioned its approval in a manner rendering it infeasible for the development of an emergency shelter, or housing for very low, low-, or moderate-income households, including farmworker housing, without making the findings required by this section.

(II) The local agency, in violation of subdivision (j), disapproved a housing development project complying with applicable, objective general plan and zoning standards and criteria, or imposed a condition that the project be developed at a lower density, without making the findings required by this section.

(III) The local agency, in violation of subdivision (o), required or attempted to require a housing development project to comply with an ordinance, policy, or standard not adopted and in effect when a preliminary application was submitted.

(IV) The local agency violated a provision of this section applicable to a builder’s remedy project.

(ii) If the court finds that one of the conditions in clause (i) is met, the court shall issue an order or judgment compelling compliance with this section within a time period not to exceed 60 days, including, but not limited to, an order that the local agency take action on the housing development project or emergency shelter. The court may issue an order or judgment directing the local agency to approve the housing development project or emergency shelter if the court finds that
the local agency acted in bad faith when it disapproved or conditionally approved the housing development or emergency shelter in violation of this section. The court shall retain jurisdiction to ensure that its order or judgment is carried out and shall award reasonable attorney’s fees and costs of suit to the plaintiff or petitioner, provided, however, that the court shall not award attorney’s fees in either of the following instances:

(I) The court finds, under extraordinary circumstances, that awarding fees would not further the purposes of this section.

(II) (ia) In a case concerning a disapproval within the meaning of subparagraph (J) or (K) of paragraph (6) of subdivision (h), the court finds that the local agency acted in good faith and had reasonable cause to disapprove the housing development project due to the existence of a controlling question of
law about the application of the California Environmental Quality Act (Division 13 (commencing with Section 21000) of the Public Resources Code) or implementing guidelines as to which there was a substantial ground for difference of opinion at the time of the disapproval.

(ib) This subclause shall become inoperative on January 1, 2031.

(B) Upon a determination that the local agency has failed to comply with the order or judgment compelling compliance with this section within the time period prescribed by the court, the court shall impose fines on a local agency that has violated this section and require the local agency to deposit any fine levied pursuant to this subdivision into a local housing trust fund. The local agency may elect to instead deposit the fine into the Building Homes and Jobs Trust Fund. The fine shall be in a minimum amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) per
housing unit in the housing development project on the date the application was deemed complete pursuant to Section 65943. In determining the amount of the fine to impose, the court shall consider the local agency’s progress in attaining its target allocation of the regional housing need pursuant to Section 65584 and any prior violations of this section. Fines shall not be paid out of funds already dedicated to affordable housing, including, but not limited to, Low and Moderate Income Housing Asset Funds, funds dedicated to housing for very low, low-, and moderate-income households, and federal HOME Investment Partnerships Program and Community Development Block Grant Program funds. The local agency shall commit and expend the money in the local housing trust fund within five years for the sole purpose of financing newly constructed housing units affordable to extremely low, very low, or low-income households. After five years, if the funds have not been expended, the money shall revert to the state and be
deposited in the Building Homes and Jobs Trust Fund for the sole purpose of financing newly constructed housing units affordable to extremely low, very low, or low-income households.

(C) If the court determines that its order or judgment has not been carried out within 60 days, the court may issue further orders as provided by law to ensure that the purposes and policies of this section are fulfilled, including, but not limited to, an order to vacate the decision of the local agency and to approve the housing development project, in which case the application for the housing development project, as proposed by the applicant at the time the local agency took the initial action determined to be in violation of this section, along with any standard conditions determined by the court to be generally imposed by the local agency on similar projects, shall be deemed to be approved unless the applicant consents to a different decision or action by the
local agency.

(D) Nothing in this section shall limit the court’s inherent authority to make any other orders to compel the immediate enforcement of any writ brought under this section, including the imposition of fees and other sanctions set forth under Section 1097 of the Code of Civil Procedure.

(2) For purposes of this subdivision, “housing organization” means a trade or industry group whose local members are primarily engaged in the construction or management of housing units or a nonprofit organization whose mission includes providing or advocating for increased access to housing for low-income households and have filed written or oral comments with the local agency prior to action on the housing development project. A housing organization may only file an action pursuant to this section to challenge the disapproval of a housing development by a local agency. A housing
organization shall be entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees and costs if it is the prevailing party in an action to enforce this section.

(l) If the court finds that the local agency (1) acted in bad faith when it violated this section and (2) failed to carry out the court’s order or judgment within the time period prescribed by the court, the court, in addition to any other remedies provided by this section, shall multiply the fine determined pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (k) by a factor of five. If a court has previously found that the local agency violated this section within the same planning period, the court shall multiply the fines by an additional factor for each previous violation. For purposes of this section, “bad faith” includes, but is not limited to, an action or inaction that is frivolous, pretextual, intended to cause unnecessary delay, or entirely without merit.

(m) (1) (A) Any action brought to enforce the provisions of this section shall be brought pursuant to Section 1094.5 of the Code of Civil Procedure, and the local agency shall prepare and certify the record of proceedings in accordance with subdivision (c) of Section 1094.6 of the Code of Civil Procedure no later than 30 days after the petition is served, provided that the cost of preparation of the record shall be borne by the local agency, unless the petitioner elects to prepare the record as provided in subdivision (n) of this section.

(B) A
petition to enforce the provisions of this section shall be filed and served no later than 90 days from the later of
either of the following:

(i) The effective date of a decision of the local agency imposing conditions on, disapproving, or any other final action on a housing
development.

(ii) The expiration of the time periods specified in subparagraphs (B) to (D), inclusive, of paragraph (6) of subdivision (h).

(C) Upon entry of the trial court’s order, a party may, in order to obtain appellate review of the order, file a petition within 20 days after service upon it of a written notice of the entry of the order, or within such further time not exceeding an additional 20 days as the trial court may for good cause allow, or may appeal the judgment or order of the trial court under Section 904.1 of the Code of Civil Procedure. If the local agency appeals the judgment of the trial court, the local agency shall post a bond, in an amount to be determined by the court, to the benefit of the plaintiff if the plaintiff is the project applicant.

(2) (A) A disapproval within the meaning of subparagraph (J) of paragraph (6) of subdivision (h) shall be final for purposes of
this subdivision, if the local agency did not make a lawful determination within the time period set forth in paragraph (5) of subdivision (a) of Section 65589.5.1 after the applicant’s timely written notice.

(B) This paragraph shall become inoperative on January 1, 2031.

(3) (A) A disapproval within the meaning of subparagraph (K) of paragraph (6) of subdivision (h) shall be final for purposes of this subdivision, if the local agency did not make a lawful determination within 90 days of the applicant’s timely written notice.

(B) This paragraph shall become inoperative on January 1, 2031.

(n) In any action, the record of the proceedings before the local agency shall be filed as expeditiously as possible and, notwithstanding Section
1094.6 of the Code of Civil Procedure or subdivision
(m), all or part of the record may be prepared (1) by the petitioner with the petition or petitioner’s points and authorities, (2) by the respondent with respondent’s points and authorities, (3) after payment of costs by the petitioner, or (4) as otherwise directed by the court. If the expense of preparing the record has been borne by the petitioner and the petitioner is the prevailing party, the expense shall be taxable as costs.

(o) (1) Subject to paragraphs (2), (6), and (7), and subdivision (d) of Section 65941.1, a housing development project shall be subject only to the ordinances, policies, and standards adopted and in effect when a preliminary application including all of the information required by subdivision (a) of Section 65941.1 was submitted.

(2) Paragraph (1) shall not prohibit a housing development
project from being subject to ordinances, policies, and standards adopted after the preliminary application was submitted pursuant to Section 65941.1 in the following circumstances:

(A) In the case of a fee, charge, or other monetary exaction, to an increase resulting from an automatic annual adjustment based on an independently published cost index that is referenced in the ordinance or resolution establishing the fee or other monetary exaction.

(B) A preponderance of the evidence in the record establishes that subjecting the housing development project to an ordinance, policy, or standard beyond those in effect when a preliminary application was submitted is necessary to mitigate or avoid a specific, adverse impact upon the public health or safety, as defined in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (j), and there is no feasible alternative method to satisfactorily
mitigate or avoid the adverse impact.

(C) Subjecting the housing development project to an ordinance, policy, standard, or any other measure, beyond those in effect when a preliminary application was submitted is necessary to avoid or substantially lessen an impact of the project under the California Environmental Quality Act (Division 13 (commencing with Section 21000) of the Public Resources Code).

(D) The housing development project has not commenced construction within two and one-half years, or three and one-half years for an affordable housing project, following the date that the project received final approval. For purposes of this subparagraph:

(i) “Affordable housing project” means a housing development that satisfies both of the following requirements:

(I) Units within the development are subject to a recorded affordability restriction for at least 55 years for rental housing and 45 years for owner-occupied housing, or the first purchaser of each unit participates in an equity sharing agreement as described in subparagraph (C) of paragraph (2) of subdivision (c) of Section 65915.

(II) All of the units within the development, excluding managers’ units, are dedicated to lower income households, as defined by Section 50079.5 of the Health and Safety Code.

(ii) “Final approval” means that the housing development project has received all necessary approvals to be eligible to apply for, and obtain, a building permit or permits and either of the following is met:

(I) The expiration of all applicable appeal periods, petition periods, reconsideration periods,
or statute of limitations for challenging that final approval without an appeal, petition, request for reconsideration, or legal challenge having been filed.

(II) If a challenge is filed, that challenge is fully resolved or settled in favor of the housing development project.

(E) The housing development project is revised following submittal of a preliminary application pursuant to Section 65941.1 such that the number of residential units or square footage of construction changes by 20 percent or more, exclusive of any increase resulting from the receipt of a density bonus, incentive, concession, waiver, or similar provision, including any other locally authorized program that offers additional density or other development bonuses when affordable housing is provided. For purposes of this subdivision, “square footage of construction” means the building area, as defined by the
California Building Standards Code (Title 24 of the California Code of Regulations).

(3) This subdivision does not prevent a local agency from subjecting the additional units or square footage of construction that result from project revisions occurring after a preliminary application is submitted pursuant to Section 65941.1 to the ordinances, policies, and standards adopted and in effect when the preliminary application was submitted.

(4) For purposes of this subdivision, “ordinances, policies, and standards” includes general plan, community plan, specific plan, zoning, design review standards and criteria, subdivision standards and criteria, and any other rules, regulations, requirements, and policies of a local agency, as defined in Section 66000, including those relating to development impact fees, capacity or connection fees or charges, permit or processing fees, and other
exactions.

(5) This subdivision shall not be construed in a manner that would lessen the restrictions imposed on a local agency, or lessen the protections afforded to a housing development project, that are established by any other law, including any other part of this section.

(6) This subdivision shall not restrict the authority of a public agency or local agency to require mitigation measures to lessen the impacts of a housing development project under the California Environmental Quality Act (Division 13 (commencing with Section 21000) of the Public Resources Code).

(7) With respect to completed residential units for which the project approval process is complete and a certificate of occupancy has been issued, nothing in this subdivision shall limit the application of later enacted ordinances, policies, and
standards that regulate the use and occupancy of those residential units, such as ordinances relating to rental housing inspection, rent stabilization, restrictions on short-term renting, and business licensing requirements for owners of rental housing.

(p) (1) Upon any motion for an award of attorney’s fees pursuant to Section 1021.5 of the Code of Civil Procedure, in a case challenging a local agency’s approval of a housing development project, a court, in weighing whether a significant benefit has been conferred on the general public or a large class of persons and whether the necessity of private enforcement makes the award appropriate, shall give due weight to the degree to which the local agency’s approval furthers policies of this section, including, but not limited to, subdivisions (a), (b), and (c), the suitability of the site for a housing development, and the reasonableness of the decision of the local agency.
It is the intent of the Legislature that attorney’s fees and costs shall rarely, if ever, be awarded if a local agency, acting in good faith, approved a housing development project that satisfies conditions established in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of subdivision (a) of Section 65589.5.1 or paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of subdivision (a) of Section 65589.5.2.

(2) This subdivision shall become inoperative on January 1, 2031.

(q) This section shall be known, and may be cited, as the Housing Accountability Act.

(r) The provisions of this section are severable. If any provision of this section or its application is held invalid, that invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications that can be given effect without the invalid provision or application.

SEC. 3.
Section 65863.10 of the Government Code is amended to read:

65863.10.
(a) As used in this section, the following terms have the following meanings:

(1) “Affected public entities” means the mayor of the city in which the assisted housing development is located, or, if located in an unincorporated area, the chair of the board of supervisors of the county; the appropriate local public housing authority, if any; and the Department of Housing and Community Development.

(2) “Affected tenant” means a tenant household residing in an assisted housing development, as defined in paragraph (3), at the time notice is required to be provided pursuant to this section, that benefits from the governmental
assistance.

(3) “Assisted housing development” means a multifamily rental housing development of five or more units that receives governmental assistance under any of the following programs:

(A) New construction, substantial rehabilitation, moderate rehabilitation, property disposition, and loan management set-aside programs, or any other program providing project-based assistance, under Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended (42 U.S.C. Sec. 1437f).

(B) The following federal programs:

(i) The Below-Market-Interest-Rate Program under Section 221(d)(3) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. Sec. 1715l(d)(3) and (5)).

(ii) Section 236 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. Sec. 1715z-1).

(iii) Section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. Sec. 1701q).

(iv) Section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. Sec. 8013).

(C) Programs for rent supplement assistance under Section 101 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965, as amended (12 U.S.C. Sec. 1701s).

(D) Programs under Sections 514, 515, 516, 521, 533, and 538 of the Housing Act of 1949, as amended (42 U.S.C. Sec. 1485).

(E) Section 42 of the Internal
Revenue Code.

(F) Section 142(d) of the Internal Revenue Code or its predecessors (tax-exempt private activity mortgage revenue bonds).

(G) Section 147 of the Internal Revenue Code (Section 501(c)(3) bonds).

(H) Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended (Community Development Block Grant Program).

(I) Title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, as amended (HOME Investment Partnerships Program).

(J) Titles IV and V of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act of 1987, as amended, including the Department of Housing and Urban
Development’s Supportive Housing Program, Shelter Plus Care Program, and surplus federal property disposition program.

(K) Grants and loans made by the Department of Housing and Community Development, including the Rental Housing Construction Program, CHRP-R, and other rental housing finance programs.

(L) Grants and loans made by the California Housing Finance Agency for rental housing.

(M) Chapter 1138 of the Statutes of 1987.

(N) The following assistance provided by counties or cities in exchange for restrictions on the maximum rents that may be charged for units within a multifamily rental housing development and on the maximum tenant income as a
condition of eligibility for occupancy of the unit subject to the rent restriction, as reflected by a recorded agreement, or other legally enforceable agreement, with a county or city:

(i) Loans or grants provided using tax increment financing pursuant to the Community Redevelopment Law (Part 1 (commencing with Section 33000) of Division 24 of the Health and Safety Code).

(ii) Local housing trust funds, as referred to in paragraph (3) of subdivision (a) of Section 50843 of the Health and Safety Code.

(iii) The sale or lease of public property at or below market rates.

(iv) The granting of density bonuses, or concessions or incentives, including fee
waivers, parking variances, or amendments to general plans, zoning, or redevelopment project area plans, pursuant to Chapter 4.3 (commencing with Section 65915).

(v) The Middle Class Housing Act of 2022 (Section 65852.24).

(vi) Streamlining assistance pursuant to the Affordable Housing and High Road Jobs Act of 2022 (Chapter 4.1 (commencing with Section 65912.100)).

(vii) Section 65913.4.

(viii) The Affordable Housing on Faith and Higher Education Lands Act of 2023 (Section 65913.16).

Assistance pursuant to this subparagraph shall not include the use of tenant-based Housing Choice Vouchers (Section 8(o) of the United
States Housing Act of 1937, 42 U.S.C. Sec. 1437f(o), excluding paragraph (13) relating to project-based assistance). Restrictions shall not include any rent control or rent stabilization ordinance imposed by a county, city, or city and county.

(4) “City” means a general law city, a charter city, or a city and county.

(5) “Expiration of rental restrictions” means the expiration of rental restrictions for an assisted housing development described in paragraph (3) unless the development has other recorded agreements restricting the rent to the same or lesser levels for at least 50 percent of the units or the same number of units under the rent restrictions prior to the expiration, whichever is greater.

(6) “Low or moderate
income” means having an income as defined in Section 50093 of the Health and Safety Code.

(7) “Owner” means an individual, corporation, association, partnership, joint venture, or business entity that holds title to the land on which an assisted housing development is located. If the assisted housing development is the subject of a leasehold interest, “owner” also means an individual, corporation, association, partnership, joint venture, or business entity that holds a leasehold interest in the assisted housing development, and the owner holding title to the land and the owner with a leasehold interest in the assisted housing development shall be jointly responsible for compliance.

(8) “Prepayment” means the payment in full or refinancing of the federally insured or federally
held mortgage indebtedness prior to its original maturity date, or the voluntary cancellation of mortgage insurance, on an assisted housing development described in paragraph (3) that would have the effect of removing the current rent or occupancy or rent and occupancy restrictions contained in the applicable laws and the regulatory agreement.

(9) “Termination” means the failure of an owner to extend or renew its participation in a federal, state, or local government subsidy program or private, nongovernmental subsidy program for an assisted housing development described in paragraph (3), either at or prior to the scheduled date of the expiration of the contract, that may result in an increase in tenant rents or a change
in the form of the subsidy from project-based to tenant-based.

(b) (1) At least 12 months prior to the anticipated date of the termination of a subsidy contract, the expiration of rental restrictions, or prepayment on an assisted housing development, the owner shall provide a notice of the proposed change to each affected tenant household residing in the assisted housing development at the time the notice is provided and to the affected public entities. An owner who meets the requirements of Section 65863.13 shall be exempt from providing that notice. The notice shall contain all of the following:

(A) In the event of termination, a statement that the owner intends to terminate the subsidy contract or rental restrictions upon its expiration date,
or the expiration date of any contract extension thereto.

(B) In the event of the expiration of rental restrictions, a statement that the restrictions will expire, and in the event of prepayment, termination, or the expiration of rental restrictions, whether the owner might increase rents during the 12 months following prepayment, termination, or the expiration of rental restrictions.

(C) In the event of prepayment, a statement that the owner intends to pay in full or refinance the federally insured or federally held mortgage indebtedness prior to its original maturity date, or voluntarily cancel the mortgage insurance.

(D) The anticipated date of the termination, prepayment of the federal or other program or
expiration of rental restrictions, and the identity of the federal or other program described in subdivision (a).

(E) A statement that the proposed change would have the effect of removing the current low-income affordability restrictions in the applicable contract or regulatory agreement.

(F) A statement whether or not the applicable program allows the owner to elect to keep the housing in the program after the proposed termination or prepayment date and, if so, a statement as to whether the owner expects to elect to keep the housing in the program after such date if allowed.

(G) A statement whether other governmental assistance will be provided to tenants residing in the development at the time of the termination
of the subsidy contract or prepayment.

(H) A statement that a subsequent notice of the proposed change, including anticipated changes in rents, if any, for the development, will be provided at least six months prior to the anticipated date of termination of the subsidy contract, or expiration of rental restrictions, or prepayment.

(I) A statement that a copy of the notice of opportunity to submit an offer to purchase is attached to or included in the notice, is posted in the common area of the development, and has been sent to qualified entities, as required in Section 65863.11.

(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), if an owner provides a copy of a federally required notice of termination of a subsidy contract or
prepayment at least 12 months prior to the proposed change to each affected tenant household residing in the assisted housing development at the time the notice is provided and to the affected public entities, the owner shall be deemed in compliance with this subdivision, if the notice is in compliance with all federal laws. However, the federally required notice does not satisfy the requirements of Section 65863.11.

(c) (1) At least six months prior to the anticipated date of termination of a subsidy contract, expiration of rental restrictions or prepayment on an assisted housing development, the owner shall provide a notice of the proposed change to each affected tenant household residing in the assisted housing development at the time the notice is provided and to the affected public entities. An owner who meets the
requirements of Section 65863.13 shall be exempt from providing that notice.

(2) The notice to the tenants shall contain all of the following:

(A) The anticipated date of the termination or prepayment of the federal or other program, or the expiration of rental restrictions, and the identity of the federal or other program, as described in subdivision (a).

(B) The current rent and rent anticipated for the unit during the 12 months immediately following the date of the prepayment or termination of the federal or other program, or expiration of rental restrictions.

(C) A statement that a copy of the notice will be sent to the city, county, or city and county,
where the assisted housing development is located, to the appropriate local public housing authority, if any, and to the Department of Housing and Community Development.

(D) A statement of the possibility that the housing may remain in the federal or other program after the proposed date of subsidy termination or prepayment if the owner elects to do so under the terms of the federal government’s or other program administrator’s offer or that a rent increase may not take place due to the expiration of rental restrictions.

(E) A statement of the owner’s intention to participate in any current replacement subsidy program made available to the affected tenants.

(F) A statement that the owner shall accept all enhanced
Section 8 vouchers if the tenants receive them.

(G) The name and telephone number of the city, county, or city and county, the appropriate local public housing authority, if any, the Department of Housing and Community Development, and a legal services organization, that can be contacted to request additional written information about an owner’s responsibilities and the rights and options of an affected tenant.

(3) In addition to the information provided in the notice to the affected tenant, the notice to the affected public entities shall contain information regarding the number of affected tenants in the project, the number of units that are government assisted and the type of assistance, the number of the units that are not government assisted, the number of bedrooms in each unit
that is government assisted, and the ages and income of the affected tenants. The notice shall briefly describe the owner’s plans for the project, including any timetables or deadlines for actions to be taken and specific governmental approvals that are required to be obtained, the reason the owner seeks to terminate the subsidy contract or prepay the mortgage, and any contacts the owner has made or is making with other governmental agencies or other interested parties in connection with the notice. The owner shall also attach a copy of any federally required notice of the termination of the subsidy contract or prepayment that was provided at least six months prior to the proposed change. The information contained in the notice shall be based on data that is reasonably available from existing written tenant and project records.

(d) The owner proposing the termination or prepayment of governmental assistance or the owner of an assisted housing development in which there will be the expiration of rental restrictions shall provide additional notice of any significant changes to the notice required by subdivision (c) within seven business days to each affected tenant household residing in the assisted housing development at the time the notice is provided and to the affected public entities. “Significant changes” shall include, but not be limited to, any changes to the date of termination or prepayment, or expiration of rental restrictions or the anticipated new rent.

(e) (1) An owner who is subject to the requirements of this section shall also provide a copy of any notices issued to existing tenants pursuant to subdivision (b),
(c), or (d), or paragraph (2) of this subdivision, to any prospective tenant at the time the prospective tenant is interviewed for eligibility.

(2) The owner of an assisted housing development that is three years from a scheduled expiration of rental restrictions or a scheduled termination of a subsidy contract shall also provide notice of the scheduled expiration of rental restrictions or a scheduled termination of a subsidy contract to existing tenants by posting the notice in an accessible location of the property. The notice shall remain posted until the expiration of rental restrictions or the termination of a subsidy contract has occurred. This notice shall also be provided to affected public entities. This paragraph is applicable only to owners of assisted housing developments where the rental restrictions are scheduled to expire after
January 1, 2021.

(f) This section shall not require the owner to obtain or acquire additional information that is not contained in the existing tenant and project records, or to update any information in the owner’s records. The owner shall not be held liable for any inaccuracies contained in these records or from other sources, nor shall the owner be liable to any party for providing this information.

(g) (1) For purposes of this section, service of the notice to the affected tenants shall be made by first-class mail postage prepaid.

(2) For purposes of this section, service of notice to the city, county, city and county, appropriate local public housing authority, if any, and the Department of
Housing and Community Development shall be made by either first-class mail postage prepaid or electronically to any public entity that has provided an email address for that purpose.

(h) Nothing in this section shall enlarge or diminish the authority, if any, that a city, county, city and county, affected tenant, or owner may have, independent of this section.

(i) If, prior to January 1, 2001, the owner has already accepted a bona fide offer from a qualified entity, as defined in subdivision (c) of Section 65863.11, and has complied with this section as it existed prior to January 1, 2001, at the time the owner decides to sell or otherwise dispose of the development, the owner shall be deemed in compliance with this section.

(j) Injunctive relief shall be available to any party identified in paragraph (1) or (2) of subdivision (a) who is aggrieved by a violation of this section, including, but not limited to, a group of affected tenants that meets the requirements of a legitimate tenant organization, as defined in federal regulations, or a tenant association, as defined in paragraph (4) of subdivision (a) of Section 65863.11. Injunctive relief pursuant to this subdivision may include, but is not limited to, reimposition of the prior restrictions until any required notice is provided and the required period has elapsed, and restitution of any rent increases collected without compliance with this section. In a judicial action brought pursuant to this subdivision, the court may award attorney’s fees and costs to a prevailing plaintiff.

(k) The Director of
Housing and Community Development shall approve forms to be used by owners to comply with subdivisions (b), (c), and (e). Once the director has approved the forms, an owner shall use the approved forms to comply with subdivisions (b), (c), and (e).

SEC. 4.
Section 65863.11 of the Government Code is amended to read:

65863.11.
(a) Terms used in this section shall be defined as follows:

(1) “Assisted housing development” and “development” shall have the same meaning as in paragraph (3) of subdivision (a) of Section 65863.10.

(2) “Owner” shall have the same meaning as in paragraph (7) of subdivision (a) of Section 65863.10.

(3) “Tenant” means a tenant, subtenant, lessee, sublessee, or other person legally in possession or occupying the assisted housing development.

(4) “Tenant association” means a group of tenants who
have formed a nonprofit corporation, cooperative corporation, or other
entity or organization, or a local nonprofit, regional, or national organization whose purpose includes the acquisition of an assisted housing development and that represents the interest of at least a majority of the tenants in the assisted housing development.

(5) “Low or moderate income” means having an income as defined in Section 50093 of the Health and Safety Code.

(6) “Very low income” means having an income as defined in Section 50105 of the Health and Safety Code.

(7) “Local nonprofit organizations” means not-for-profit corporations organized pursuant to Division 2 (commencing with Section 5000) of Title 1 of the Corporations Code that have as their principal purpose the ownership, development, or management
of housing or community development projects for persons and families of low or moderate income and very low income, and which have a broadly representative board, a majority of whose members are community based and have a proven track record of local community service.

(8) “Local public agencies” means housing authorities, redevelopment agencies, or any other agency of a city, county, or city and county, whether general law or chartered, which are authorized to own, develop, or manage housing or community development projects for persons and families of low or moderate income and very low income.

(9) “Regional or national organizations” means not-for-profit, charitable corporations organized on a multicounty, state, or multistate basis that have as their principal purpose the
ownership, development, or management of housing or community development projects for persons and families of low or moderate income and very low income and own and operate at least three comparable rent- and income-restricted affordable rental properties governed under a regulatory agreement with a department or agency of the State of California or the United States, either directly or by serving as the managing general partner of limited partnerships or managing member of limited liability corporations.

(10) “Regional or national public agencies” means multicounty, state, or multistate agencies that are authorized to own, develop, or manage housing or community development projects for persons and families of low or moderate income and very low income and own and operate at least three comparable rent- and income-restricted
affordable rental properties governed under a regulatory agreement with a department or agency of the State of California or the United States, either directly or by serving as the managing general partner of limited partnerships or managing member of limited liability corporations.

(11) “Use restriction” means any federal, state, or local statute, regulation, ordinance, or contract that, as a condition of receipt of any housing assistance, including a rental subsidy, mortgage subsidy, or mortgage insurance, to an assisted housing development, establishes maximum limitations on tenant income as a condition of eligibility for occupancy of the units within a development, imposes any restrictions on the maximum rents that could be charged for any of the units within a development; or requires that rents for any of the units within a development
be reviewed by any governmental body or agency before the rents are implemented.

(12) “Profit-motivated housing organizations and individuals” means individuals or two or more persons organized pursuant to Division 1 (commencing with Section 100) of Title 1 of, Division 3 (commencing with Section 1200) of Title 1 of, or Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 16100) of Title 2 of, the Corporations Code, that carry on as a business for profit and own and operate at least three comparable rent- and income-restricted affordable rental properties governed under a regulatory agreement with a department or agency of the State of California or the United States, either directly or by serving as the managing general partner of limited partnerships or managing member of limited liability corporations.

(13) “Department” means the Department of Housing and Community Development.

(14) “Offer to purchase” means an offer from a qualified or nonqualified entity that is nonbinding on the owner.

(15) “Expiration of rental restrictions” has the meaning given in paragraph (5) of subdivision (a) of Section 65863.10.

(16) “Qualified entity” means an entity that meets the requirements of subdivisions (d) and (e).

(17) “Affected public entities” has the same meaning as defined in Section 65863.10.

(b) An owner of an assisted housing development shall not terminate a subsidy contract or prepay the
mortgage pursuant to Section 65863.10, unless the owner or its agent shall first have provided each of the entities listed in subdivision (d) an opportunity to submit an offer to purchase the development, in compliance with subdivisions (g) and (h). An owner of an assisted housing development in which there will be the expiration of rental restrictions shall also provide each of the entities listed in subdivision (d) an opportunity to submit an offer to purchase the development, in compliance with subdivisions (g) and (h). An owner who meets the requirements of Section 65863.13 shall be exempt from this requirement.

(c) An owner of an assisted housing development shall not sell, or otherwise dispose of, the development at any time within the five years before the expiration of rental restrictions or at any time if the owner is eligible
for prepayment or termination within five years unless the owner or its agent shall first have provided each of the entities listed in subdivision (d) an opportunity to submit an offer to purchase the development, in compliance with this section. An owner who meets the requirements of Section 65863.13 shall be exempt from this requirement.

(d) The entities to whom an opportunity to purchase shall be provided include only the following:

(1) The tenant association of the development.

(2) Local nonprofit organizations and public agencies.

(3) Regional or national nonprofit organizations and regional or national public agencies.

(4) Profit-motivated housing organizations or individuals.

(e) For the purposes of this section, to qualify as a purchaser of an assisted housing development, an entity listed in subdivision (d) shall do all of the following:

(1) Be certified by the department, based on demonstrated relevant prior experience in California and current capacity, as capable of operating the housing and related facilities for its remaining useful life, either by itself or through a management agent. The department shall establish a process for certifying an entity meeting the requirements of subdivision (d) and maintain a list of entities that are certified, which list shall be updated at least annually.

(2) Agree to obligate itself and any successors in interest to maintain the affordability of the assisted housing development for households of very low, low, or moderate income for either a 30-year period from the date that the purchaser took legal possession of the housing or the remaining term of the existing federal governmental assistance specified in subdivision (a) of Section 65863.10, whichever is greater. The development shall be continuously occupied in the approximate percentages that those households who have occupied that development on the date the owner gave notice of intent or the approximate percentages specified in existing use restrictions, whichever is higher. This obligation shall be recorded before the close of escrow in the office of the county recorder of the county in which the development is located and shall contain a legal description of the property, indexed
to the name of the owner as grantor. An owner that obligates itself to an enforceable regulatory agreement that will ensure for a period of not less than 30 years that rents for units occupied by low- and very low income households or that are vacant at the time of executing a purchase agreement will conform with restrictions imposed by Section 42(f) of the Internal Revenue Code shall be deemed in compliance with this paragraph. In addition, the regulatory agreement shall contain provisions requiring the renewal of rental subsidies, should they be available, provided that assistance is at a level to maintain the project’s fiscal viability.

(3) Local nonprofit organizations and public agencies shall have no member among their officers or directorate with a financial interest in assisted housing developments that have terminated a subsidy
contract or prepaid a mortgage on the development without continuing the low-income restrictions.

(f) If an assisted housing development is not economically feasible, as determined by all entities with regulatory agreements and deed-restrictions on the development, a purchaser shall be entitled to remove one or more units from the rent and occupancy requirements as is necessary for the development to become economically feasible, provided that once the development is again economically feasible, the purchaser shall designate the next available units as low-income units up to the original number of those units.

(g) If an owner decides to terminate a subsidy contract, or prepay the mortgage pursuant to Section 65863.10, or sell or otherwise dispose of the assisted housing
development pursuant to
subdivision (b) or (c), or if the owner has an assisted housing development in which there will be the expiration of rental restrictions, the owner shall first give notice of the opportunity to offer to purchase to affected public entities, to each qualified entity on the list provided to the owner by the department, in accordance with subdivision (p), and to those qualified entities that directly contact the owner. A copy of this notice shall also be included or attached to the notice pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 65863.10. The notice of the opportunity to offer to purchase must be given before or concurrently with the notice required pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 65863.10 for a period of at least 12 months. The owner shall contact the department to obtain the list of qualified entities. The notice shall conform to the requirements of subdivision (h) and shall be sent
to the entities by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested. The owner shall also post a copy of the notice in a conspicuous place in the common area of the development.

(h) The initial notice of a bona fide opportunity to submit an offer to purchase shall contain all of the following:

(1) A statement addressing both of the following:

(A) Whether the owner intends to maintain the current number of affordable units and level of affordability.

(B) Whether the owner has executed a contract or agreement of at least five years’ duration with a public entity to continue or replace subsidies to the property and to maintain an equal or greater number of
units at an equal or deeper level of affordability and, if so, the length of the contract or agreement.

(2) A statement that each of the type of entities listed in subdivision (d), or any combination of them, has the right to submit a bona fide offer to purchase the development under this section.

(3) (A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), a statement that the owner will make available to each of the types of entities listed in subdivision (d), within 15 business days of receiving a request therefor, that includes all of the following:

(i) Itemized lists of monthly operating expenses for the property.

(ii) Capital improvements, as determined by the
owner, made within each of the two preceding calendar years at the property.

(iii) The amount of project property reserves.

(iv) Copies of the two most recent financial and physical inspection reports on the property, if any, filed with a federal, state, or local agency.

(v) The most recent rent roll for the property listing the rent paid for each unit and the subsidy, if any, paid by a governmental agency as of the date the notice of offer to purchase was made pursuant to subdivision (g).

(vi) A statement of the vacancy rate at the property for each of the two preceding calendar years.

(vii) The terms of assumable financing, if any, the terms of the subsidy contract, if any, and proposed improvements to the property to be made by the owner in connection with the sale, if any.

(B) Subparagraph (A) shall not apply if 25 percent or less of the units on the property are subject to affordability restrictions or a rent or mortgage subsidy contract.

(C) A corporation authorized pursuant to Section 52550 of the Health and Safety Code or a public entity may share information obtained pursuant to subparagraph (A) with other prospective purchasers, and shall not be required to sign a confidentiality agreement as a condition of receiving or sharing this information, provided that the information is used for the purpose of attempting to preserve the affordability of
the property.

(4) A statement that the owner has satisfied all notice requirements pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 65863.10, unless the notice of opportunity to submit an offer to purchase is delivered more than 12 months before the anticipated date of termination, prepayment, or expiration of rental restrictions.

(i) If a qualified entity elects to purchase an assisted housing development, it shall make a bona fide offer to purchase the development at the market value determined pursuant to subdivision (k), subject to the requirements of this subdivision. A qualified entity’s bona fide offer to purchase shall be submitted within 270 days of the owner’s notice of the opportunity to submit an offer pursuant to subdivision (g), identify whether it is a tenant association,
nonprofit organization, public agency, or profit-motivated organizations or individuals, and certify, under penalty of perjury, that it is qualified pursuant to subdivision (e). If an owner has received a bona fide offer from one or more qualified entities within the first 270 days from the date of an owner’s bona fide notice of the opportunity to submit an offer to purchase, the owner shall notify the department of all such offers within 90 days and either (1) accept a bona fide offer from a qualified entity to purchase and execute a purchase agreement, or (2) record a new regulatory agreement with a term of at least 30 years that, at a minimum, meets the criteria of subdivision (a) of Section 65863.13. Once a bona fide offer is made, the owner shall take all steps reasonably required to renew any expiring housing assistance contract, or extend any available subsidies or use restrictions, if
feasible, before the effective date of any expiration or termination.

(j) The market value of the property shall be determined by negotiation and agreement between the parties. If the parties fail to reach an agreement regarding the market value, the market value shall be determined by an appraisal process initiated by the owner’s receipt of the bona fide offer, which shall specifically reference the appraisal process provided by this subdivision as the means for determining the final purchase price. Either the owner or the qualified entity, or both, may request that the fair market value of the property’s highest and best use, based on current zoning, be determined by an independent appraiser qualified to perform multifamily housing appraisals, who shall be selected and paid by the requesting party. All appraisers shall possess qualifications equivalent
to those required by the members of the Appraisal Institute and shall be certified by the department as having sufficient experience in appraising comparable rental properties in California.  If the appraisals differ by less than 5 percent, the market value and sales price shall be set at the higher appraised value. If the appraisals differ by more than 5 percent, the parties may elect to have the appraisers negotiate a mutually agreeable market value and sales price, or to jointly select a third appraiser, whose determination of market value and the sales price shall be binding.

(k) If an owner does not receive a bona fide offer from one or more qualified entities within the 270 days specified in subdivision (i), or if after the 270 days specified in subdivision (i) all bona fide offers are withdrawn, the owner may do any of the
following:

(1) Sell the property to any buyer.

(2) Extend the affordability restrictions for any period of time.

(3) Maintain ownership of the property and allow the expiration, termination, or prepayment to occur at the end of the notice periods specified in Section 65863.10.

(l) This section does not apply to any of the following: a government taking by eminent domain or negotiated purchase; a forced sale pursuant to a foreclosure; a transfer by gift, devise, or operation of law; a sale to a person who would be included within the table of descent and distribution if there were to be a death intestate of an owner; or an owner who certifies, under penalty of perjury,
the existence of a financial emergency during the period covered by the offer to purchase requiring immediate access to the proceeds of the sale of the development. The certification shall be made pursuant to subdivision (o).

(m) Prior to the close of escrow, an owner selling, leasing, or otherwise disposing of a development to a purchaser who does not qualify under subdivision (e) shall certify under penalty of perjury that the owner has complied with all provisions of this section and Section 65863.10. This certification shall be recorded and shall contain a legal description of the property, shall be indexed to the name of the owner as grantor, and may be relied upon by good faith purchasers and encumbrances for value and without notice of a failure to comply with the provisions of this section.

A person
or entity acting solely in the capacity of an escrow agent for the transfer of real property subject to this section shall not be liable for any failure to comply with this section unless the escrow agent either had actual knowledge of the requirements of this section or acted contrary to written escrow instructions concerning the provisions of this section.

(n) The department shall undertake the following responsibilities and duties:

(1) Maintain a form containing a summary of rights and obligations under this section and make that information available to owners of assisted housing developments as well as to tenant
associations, local nonprofit organizations, regional or national nonprofit organizations, public agencies, and other entities with an interest in preserving the state’s subsidized housing.

(2) Compile, maintain, and update a list of entities in subdivision (d) that have either contacted the department with an expressed interest in purchasing a development in the subject area or have been identified by the department as potentially having an interest in participating in a right-of-first-refusal program. The department shall publicize the existence of the list statewide. Upon receipt of a notice of intent under Section 65863.10, the department shall make the list available to the owner proposing the termination, prepayment, or removal of governmental assistance or to the owner of an assisted housing development in which there will be
the expiration of rental restrictions. If the department does not make the list available at any time, the owner shall only be required to send a written copy of the opportunity to submit an offer to purchase notice to the qualified entities which directly contact the owner and to post a copy of the notice in the common area pursuant to subdivision (g).

(3) (A) Monitor compliance with this section and Sections 65863.10 and 65863.13 by owners of assisted housing developments and, notwithstanding Section 10231.5, provide a report to the Legislature, which may be combined with the report submitted pursuant to Section 50408 of the Health and Safety Code, on or before December 31 of each year, containing information for the previous fiscal year, except that the report due December 31, 2022, shall include information
for the 18 months from January 1, 2021, to June 30, 2022, inclusive, that includes, but is not limited to, the following:

(i) The number of properties and rental units subject to this section and Sections 65863.10 and 65863.13.

(ii) The number of properties and units that did any of the following:

(I) Complied with the requirements of this section and Sections 65863.10 and 65863.13.

(II) Failed to comply with the requirements of this section and Sections 65863.10 and 65863.13.

(III) Were offered for sale and therefore subject to the purchase right provisions of this section.

(IV) Were offered for sale and complied with the purchase right provisions of this section and the outcomes of the purchase right actions, including whether the property changed hands, to whom, and with what impact on affordability protections.

(V) Were offered for sale and failed to comply with the purchase right provisions of this section, the reason for their failure to comply, and the impact of their failure to comply on the affordability protections and the tenants who were residing in the property at the time of the failure.

(VI) Claimed exemptions from the obligations of this section pursuant to Section 65863.13 by category of reason for exemption.

(VII) Claimed exemptions from the obligations of this section and lost affordability protections and the impact on the tenants of the loss of the affordability protections.

(B) To facilitate the department’s compliance monitoring, owners of assisted housing developments in which at least 5 percent of the units on the property are subject to affordability restrictions or a rent or mortgage subsidy contract shall certify compliance with this section and Sections 65863.10 and 65863.13 to the department annually, under penalty of perjury, in a form as required by the department.

(C) The department may request information, in a form prescribed by the department, from counties and cities that provide assistance to owners of projects as described in subparagraph (N) of
paragraph (3) of subdivision (a) of Section 65863.10.

(D) The report required to be submitted pursuant to this paragraph shall be submitted in compliance with Section 9795.

(4) Refer violations of this section and Sections 65863.10 and 65863.13 to the Attorney General for appropriate enforcement action.

(o) (1) The provisions of this section may be enforced either in law or in equity by any affected tenant, as defined in paragraph (2) of subdivision (a) of Section 65863.10, any qualified entity entitled to exercise the opportunity to purchase and right of first refusal under this section, a group of affected tenants that meets the requirements of a legitimate tenant organization, as defined in federal
regulations, a tenant association, as defined in paragraph (4) of subdivision (a) of Section 65863.11, or any affected public entity that has been adversely affected by an owner’s failure to comply with this section. In any judicial action brought pursuant to this subdivision, the court may waive any bond requirement and may award attorney’s fees and costs to a prevailing plaintiff.

(2) An owner may rely on the statements, claims, or representations of any person or entity that the person or entity is a qualified entity as specified in subdivision (d), unless the owner has actual knowledge that the purchaser is not a qualified entity.

(3) If the person or entity is not an entity as specified in subdivision (d), that fact, in the absence of actual knowledge as described in paragraph (2),
shall not give rise to any claim against the owner for a violation of this section.

(p) It is the intent of the Legislature that the provisions of this section are in addition to, but not preemptive of, applicable federal laws governing the sale or other disposition of a development that would result in either (1) a discontinuance of its use as an assisted housing development or (2) the termination or expiration of any low-income use restrictions that apply to the development.

(q) Except as provided in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (3) of subdivision (n), this section does not apply to either of the following:

(1) An assisted housing development receiving government assistance as described in clauses (iv) to (viii),
inclusive, of subparagraph (N) of paragraph (3) of subdivision (a) of Section 65863.10 in which 30 percent or less of the units are subject to affordability restrictions.

(2) An assisted housing development in which 30 percent or less of the units are subject to affordability restrictions that was developed in compliance with a local ordinance, charter amendment, specific plan, resolution, or other land use policy or regulation requiring that a housing development contain a fixed percentage of units affordable to extremely low, very low, low-, or moderate-income households.

(r) The department shall comply with any obligations under this section through the use of standards, forms, and definitions adopted by the department. The department may review, adopt, amend, and repeal
the standards, forms, or definitions to implement this section. Any standards, forms, or definitions adopted to implement this section shall not be subject to Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2.

(s) For purposes of this section, service of notice to the city, county, or city and county in which the assisted housing development is located, to the appropriate local public housing authority, if any, and the Department of Housing and Community Development shall be made by either registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, or electronically to any public entity that has provided an email address for that purpose.

SEC. 5.
Section 66300 of the Government Code is amended to read:

66300.
(a) As used in this article, the following definitions shall apply:

(1) (A) Except as otherwise provided in subparagraph (B), “affected city” means a city, including a charter city, that the Department of Housing and Community Development determines, pursuant to subdivision (d), is in an urbanized area or urban cluster, as designated by the United States Census Bureau.

(B) Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), “affected city” does not include any city that has a population of 5,000 or less and is not located within an urbanized area, as designated by the United States Census Bureau.

(2) “Affected county” means a census-designated place, based on the 2013-2017 American Community Survey 5-year Estimates, that is wholly located within the boundaries of an urbanized area, as designated by the United States Census Bureau.

(3) Notwithstanding any other law, “affected county” and “affected city” includes the electorate of an affected county or city exercising its local initiative or referendum power, whether that power is derived from the California Constitution, statute, or the charter or ordinances of the affected county or city.

(4) “Department” means the Department of Housing and Community Development.

(5) “Development policy, standard, or
condition” means any of the following:

(A) A provision of, or amendment to, a general plan.

(B) A provision of, or amendment to, a specific plan.

(C) A provision of, or amendment to, a zoning ordinance.

(D) A subdivision standard or criterion.

(6) “Housing development project” has the same meaning as defined in paragraph (3) of subdivision (b) of Section 65905.5.

(7) “Objective design standard” means a design standard that involves no personal or subjective judgment by a public official and is uniformly verifiable by reference to an external and
uniform benchmark or criterion available and knowable by both the development applicant or proponent and the public official before submittal of an application.

(b) (1) Notwithstanding any other law except as provided in subdivision (h), with respect to land where housing is an allowable use, an affected county or an affected city shall not enact a development policy, standard, or condition that would have any of the following effects:

(A) Changing the general plan land use designation, specific plan land use designation, or zoning of a parcel or parcels of property to a less intensive use or reducing the intensity of land use within an existing general plan land use designation, specific plan land use designation, or zoning district in effect at the time of
the proposed change, below what was allowed under the land use designation or zoning ordinances of the affected county or affected city, as applicable, as in effect on January 1, 2018, except as otherwise provided in clause (ii) of subparagraph (B) or subdivision (h). For purposes of this subparagraph, “reducing the intensity of land use” includes, but is not limited to, reductions to height, density, or floor area ratio, new or increased open space or lot size requirements, new or increased setback requirements, minimum frontage requirements, or maximum lot coverage limitations, or any other action that would individually or cumulatively reduce the site’s residential development capacity.

(B) (i) Imposing a moratorium or similar restriction or limitation on housing development, including mixed-use development, within all
or a portion of the jurisdiction of the affected county or city, other than to specifically protect against an imminent threat to the health and safety of persons residing in, or within the immediate vicinity of, the area subject to the moratorium or for projects specifically identified as existing restricted affordable housing.

(ii) The affected county or affected city, as applicable, shall not enforce a zoning ordinance imposing a moratorium or other similar restriction on or limitation of housing development until it has submitted the ordinance to, and received approval from, the department. The department shall approve a zoning ordinance submitted to it pursuant to this subparagraph only if it determines that the zoning ordinance satisfies the requirements of this subparagraph. If the department denies approval of a zoning ordinance
imposing a moratorium or similar restriction or limitation on housing development as inconsistent with this subparagraph, that ordinance shall be deemed void.

(C) Imposing or enforcing design standards established on or after January 1, 2020, that are not objective design standards.

(D) Except as provided in subparagraph (E), establishing or implementing any provision that:

(i) Limits the number of land use approvals or permits necessary for the approval and construction of housing that will be issued or allocated within all or a portion of the affected county or affected city, as applicable.

(ii) Acts as a cap on the number of housing units that can be approved
or constructed either annually or for some other time period.

(iii) Limits the population of the affected county or affected city, as applicable.

(E) Notwithstanding subparagraph (D), an affected county or affected city may enforce a limit on the number of approvals or permits or a cap on the number of housing units that can be approved or constructed if the provision of law imposing the limit was approved by voters prior to January 1, 2005, and the affected county or affected city is located in a predominantly agricultural county. For the purposes of this subparagraph, “predominantly agricultural county” means a county that meets both of the following, as determined by the most recent California Farmland Conversion Report produced by the Department of Conservation:

(i) Has more than 550,000 acres of agricultural land.

(ii) At least one-half of the county area is agricultural land.

(2) Any development policy, standard, or condition enacted on or after the effective date of this section that does not comply with this section shall be deemed void.

(c) Notwithstanding subdivisions (b) and (e), an affected county or affected city may enact a development policy, standard, or condition to prohibit the commercial use of land that is designated for residential use, including, but not limited to, short-term occupancy of a residence, consistent with the authority conferred on the county or city by other law.

(d) The Department of Housing and Community Development shall determine those cities and counties in this state that are affected cities and affected counties, in accordance with subdivision (a) by June 30, 2020. The department may update the list of affected cities and affected counties once on or after January 1, 2021, and once on or after January 1, 2025, to account for changes in urbanized areas or urban clusters due to new data obtained from the 2020 census. The department’s determination shall remain valid until January 1, 2030.

(e) (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (3) and (4) and subdivisions (g) and (h), this section shall prevail over any conflicting provision of this title or other law regulating housing development in this state to the extent
that this section more fully advances the intent specified in paragraph (2).

(2) It is the intent of the Legislature that this section be broadly construed so as to maximize the development of housing within this state. Any exception to the requirements of this section, including an exception for the health and safety of occupants of a housing development project, shall be construed narrowly.

(3) This section shall not be construed as prohibiting the adoption or amendment of a development policy, standard, or condition in a manner that:

(A) Allows greater density.

(B) Facilitates the development of housing.

(C) Reduces the costs to a housing development project.

(D) Imposes or implements mitigation measures as necessary to comply with the California Environmental Quality Act (Division 13 (commencing with Section 21000) of the Public Resources Code).

(4) This section shall not apply to a housing development project located within a very high fire hazard severity zone. For purposes of this paragraph, “very high fire hazard severity zone” has the same meaning as provided in Section 51177.

(f) This section shall not be construed to void a height limit, urban growth boundary, or urban limit established by the electorate of an affected county or an affected city, provided that the height limit, urban growth boundary, or urban
limit complies with subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (b).

(g) (1) Nothing in this section supersedes, limits, or otherwise modifies the requirements of, or the standards of review pursuant to, Division 13 (commencing with Section 21000) of the Public Resources Code.

(2) Nothing in this section supersedes, limits, or otherwise modifies the requirements of the California Coastal Act of 1976 (Division 20 (commencing with Section 30000) of the Public Resources Code). For a housing development project proposed within the coastal zone, nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit an affected county or an affected city from enacting a development policy, standard, or condition necessary to implement or amend a certified local coastal
program consistent with the California Coastal Act of 1976 (Division 20 (commencing with Section 30000) of the Public Resources Code).

(h) (1) This section does not prohibit an affected county or an affected city, including the local electorate acting through the initiative process, from changing a land use designation or zoning ordinance to a less intensive use, or reducing the intensity of land use, if the city or county concurrently changes the development standards, policies, and conditions applicable to other parcels within the jurisdiction to ensure that there is no net loss in residential capacity.

(2) (A) For purposes of this subdivision, “concurrently” means the action is approved at the same meeting of the legislative body.

(B) Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), if the action that would result in a net loss of residential capacity is requested by an applicant for a housing development project, “concurrently” means within 180 days.

(C) Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), in the case of an initiative measure, “concurrently” means the action is included in the initiative in a manner that ensures the added residential capacity is effective at the same time as the reduction in residential capacity.

(3) This section does not prohibit an affected county or an affected city from changing a land use designation or zoning ordinance to a less intensive use on a site that is a mobilehome park, as defined in Section 18214 of the Health and Safety Code,
as of the effective date of this section, and the no net loss requirement in paragraph (1) shall not apply.

(i) Notwithstanding subdivisions (b) and (e), this section does not prohibit an affected city or an affected county from enacting a development policy, standard, or condition that is intended to preserve or facilitate the production of housing for lower income households, as defined in Section 50079.5 of the Health and Safety Code, or housing types that traditionally serve lower income households, including mobilehome parks, single-room occupancy units, or units subject to any form of rent or price control through a public entity’s valid exercise of its police power.

(j) The amendments to subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (b), and to paragraph (1)
of subdivision (h) made by the act adding this subdivision do not constitute a change in, but are declaratory of, existing law.

SEC. 6.
Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code is amended to read:

50199.7.
As used in this chapter:

(a) “Committee” means the Mortgage Bond and Tax Credit Allocation Committee, which is renamed the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee. All references to “committee” shall mean the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee.

(b) “Household” has the same meaning as defined in Section 7602 of Title 25 of the California Code of Regulations.

(c) “Housing credit” means the tax credit for low-income rental housing provided under Section 42 of the federal Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. Sec. 42).

(d) “Housing credit applicant” means any owner, sponsor, or developer of a qualifying low-income building or project who applies to the committee for either of the following:

(1) An allocation of a portion of the current state housing credit ceiling.

(2) A reservation of a portion of the anticipated state housing credit ceiling of a subsequent year.

(e) “Housing credit ceiling” means the amount specified in Section 42(h)(3)(C) of the federal Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. Sec. 42(h)(3)(C)).

(f) “Qualified low-income building” or “project” has the meaning specified in Section 42(c)(2) of the federal Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. Sec. 42(c)(2)).

(g) “Agricultural worker” or “farmworker” means an individual who derives, or prior to retirement or disability derived, a substantial portion of their income as an agricultural employee, as that term is defined in subdivision (b) of Section 1140.4 of the Labor Code.

(h) (1) Before January 1, 2018, “farmworker housing” means housing for agricultural workers that is available to, and occupied by, only farmworkers and their households. The committee may permit an owner to temporarily house nonfarmworkers in vacant units in the event of a disaster or other critical occurrence. However, such emergency shelter shall only be permitted if there are no pending qualified farmworker household applications for residency.

(2) On and after January 1, 2018, “farmworker housing” means housing in which at least 50 percent of the units are available to, and occupied by, farmworkers and their households. The committee may permit an owner to temporarily house nonfarmworkers in vacant units in the event of a disaster or other critical occurrence. However, such emergency shelter shall only be permitted if there are no pending qualified farmworker household applications for residency.

SEC. 7.
Section 50199.15 of the Health and Safety Code is amended to read:

50199.15.
(a) The committee shall annually submit to the Legislature by April 1 of each year a report specifying, with respect to its activities under this chapter during the previous calendar year, (1) the total amount of low-income housing credits allocated by the committee, (2) the total number of units assisted by the credit that are, or are to be, occupied by households whose income is 60 percent or less of area median gross income, (3) the amount of the credit allocated to each project, the other financing available to the project, and the number of units that are, or are to be, therein occupied by households whose income is 60 percent or less of area median gross income, and (4) sufficient information to identify the project.

(b) The committee shall also include in its annual report to the Legislature, an aggregation of the information which shall be submitted annually by housing sponsors for all projects that have received an allocation in previous years, specifying all of the following:

(1) Information sufficient to identify the project.

(2) The total number of units in the project.

(3) The total number of units assisted by the credit that are required to be occupied by households whose income is 60 percent or less of the area median gross income as a condition of receiving a tax credit.

(4) The total number of units
assisted by the credit that are occupied by households whose income is 60 percent or less of the area median gross income.

(5) For a project that has received an allocation on or after January 1, 2026, the total number of units assisted by the credit that meet each of the following conditions:

(A) The unit is accessible to people with mobility disabilities.

(B) The project is required to provide priority for the unit to people with mobility disabilities.

(C) The unit is accessible to people with hearing and vision disabilities.

(D) The project is required to provide priority for the unit to people
with hearing and vision disabilities.

(c) The committee shall also include in its annual report to the Legislature, any recommendations for improvement in the low-income housing tax credit.

(d) Commencing in the 2025 calendar year, the committee shall include in its annual report to the Legislature an aggregation of the information submitted by housing sponsors for all projects that have received an allocation on or after January 1, 2024, pursuant to the requirements of Section 50199.23.

SEC. 8.
Section 50408 of the Health and Safety Code is amended to read:

50408.
(a) On or before December 31 of each year, the department shall submit an annual report to the Governor and both houses of the Legislature on the operations and accomplishments during the previous fiscal year of the housing programs administered by the department, including, but not limited to, the Emergency Housing and Assistance Program and Community Development Block Grant activity.

(b) The report shall include all of the following information:

(1) The number of units assisted by those programs.

(2) The number of individuals and households served and their income
levels.

(3) The distribution of units among various areas of the state.

(4) The amount of other public and private funds leveraged by the assistance provided by those programs.

(5) Information detailing the assistance provided to various groups of persons by programs that are targeted to assist those groups.

(6) The information required to be reported pursuant to Section 17031.8.

(7) (A) An evaluation, in collaboration with the Department of Veterans Affairs, of any program established by the department pursuant to Article 3.2 (commencing with Section 987.001) of Chapter 6
of Division 4 of the Military and Veterans Code, including information relating to the effectiveness of assisted projects in helping veterans occupying any supportive housing or transitional housing development that was issued funds pursuant to that article.

(B) The evaluation shall include, but is not limited to, the following information:

(i) Performance outcome data including, but not limited to, housing stability, housing exit information, and tenant satisfaction, which may be measured by a survey, and changes in income, benefits, and education.

(I) For purposes of this paragraph, the term “housing stability” includes, but is not limited to, how many tenants exit transitional housing to permanent housing or
maintain permanent housing, and the length of time those tenants spent in assisted units.

(II) For purposes of this paragraph, the term “housing exit information” includes, but is not limited to, the following:

(ia) How many tenants left assisted units.

(ib) The length of tenancy in assisted units.

(ic) The reason those tenants left assisted units, when that information is readily obtainable.

(id) The housing status of a tenant exiting an assisted unit upon exit when that information is readily available.

(ii) Client data, which may include, but is
not limited to, demographic characteristics of the veteran and their family, educational and employment status of the veteran, and veteran-specific information including, but not limited to, disability ratings, type of discharge, branch, era of service, and veterans affairs health care eligibility.

SEC. 9.
Section 50676 of the Health and Safety Code is amended to read:

50676.
(a) The department is hereby designated as the state agency responsible for administering funds received by the state from the federal Housing Trust Fund pursuant to the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-289), and implementing federal regulations. The department may use up to 10 percent of the federal Housing Trust Fund annual grant award for expenses of administering these funds.

(b) The department shall administer the funds through any existing or newly created programs that produce, preserve, rehabilitate, or support the operation of rental housing for extremely low income and very low income households, except that up to 10 percent of funding may be used
to support home ownership for extremely low income and very low income households. Any rental project funded from the federal Housing Trust Fund shall restrict affordability for 55 years through a recorded and enforceable affordability covenant. Any home ownership program funded from the federal Housing Trust Fund shall restrict affordability for 30 years through either a recorded and enforceable affordability covenant or a recorded and enforceable equity recapture agreement.

(c) The department shall collaborate with the California Housing Finance Agency to develop an allocation plan to demonstrate how the funds shall be distributed, based on the priority housing needs identified in the state’s consolidated plan prepared in accordance with Part 91 (commencing with Section 91.1) of Subtitle A of Title 24 of the Code of Federal
Regulations. The department shall submit the plan to the Assembly Committee on Housing and Community Development and the Senate Housing Committee 30 days after receipt of the federal funds.

(d) The allocation plan and guidelines shall give priority to projects based on:

(1) Geographic diversity.

(2) The extent to which rents are affordable, especially to extremely low income households.

(3) The merits of a project.

(4) Applicants readiness.

(5) The extent to which projects will use nonfederal funds.

(e) The department shall award funds to projects serving people experiencing homelessness, to the extent that a sufficient number of projects exist. The department may alter priority for funding to align eligibility for possible benefits, including Medi-Cal benefits intended to fund services for people experiencing homelessness.

SEC. 10.
Section 50827 of the Health and Safety Code is amended to read:

50827.
(a) Thirty percent of the annual allocation of federal State Community Development Block Grant Program funds, less department administrative funds, shall be set aside for economic development projects and programs. All funds made available pursuant to the program shall, consistent with the requirements of subsection (c) of Section 5301 of Title 42 of the United States Code, be utilized to provide decent housing, a suitable living environment, and expanding economic opportunities, principally for persons and families of low or moderate income. Following the adoption of guidelines pursuant to Section 50826.1, with approval by the Department of Finance and notification to the Joint Legislative Budget Committee, or June 30, 2018, whichever is sooner,
if there are insufficient qualified applications for economic development project and program set aside provided by this section, as determined by the department’s review of all economic development applications received by the application deadline specified in the NOFA, these funds shall be available to make awards to other qualifying projects and programs submitted by the application deadline specified in the NOFA.

(b) On or before June 30, 2018, with the consultation of stakeholders, the department shall update Chapter 21 of its Grant Management Manual to facilitate the subscription of and reflect all federal requirements for economic development business assistance loans.

(c) It is the intent of the Legislature to remove impediments and streamline access for local agencies
to the funds set aside by this section to assist with local economic development efforts. On or before January 1, 2018, the department shall do all of the following:

(1) Provide electronic links on the department’s internet website to any applicable federal regulations or guidelines published by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development applicable to eligible economic development activities.

(2) Ensure that program staff are trained on the applicable federal law, regulations, or guidelines published by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development applicable to eligible economic development activities.

(3) Prepare a schedule for the release of a NOFA to expedite the allocation of all
unencumbered available funds, as of May 22, 2017, allocated pursuant to the requirements of this section.

SEC. 11.
Section 50828 of the Health and Safety Code is amended to read:

50828.
Not less than 51 percent of the annual allocation of federal State Community Development Block Grant Program funds, less department administrative funds, shall be utilized by the department to make grants to eligible cities or counties for the purpose of providing or improving housing opportunities for persons and families of low or moderate income or for purposes directly related to the provision or improvement of housing opportunities for persons and families of low or moderate income, including, but not limited to, the construction of infrastructure. Following the adoption of guidelines pursuant to Section 50826.1, with approval by the Department of Finance and notification to the Joint Legislative Budget Committee, or June 30, 2018, whichever is sooner,
if there are insufficient qualified applications for providing or improving housing opportunities for the set aside provided by this section as determined by the department’s review of all applications for providing or improving housing opportunities received by the application deadline specified in the NOFA, these funds shall be available to make awards to other qualifying projects and programs submitted by the application deadline specified in the NOFA.

SEC. 12.
Section 12206 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is amended to read:

12206.
(a) (1) There shall be allowed as a credit against the “tax,” described by Section 12201, a state low-income housing tax credit in an amount equal to the amount determined in subdivision (c), computed in accordance with Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, except as otherwise provided in this section.

(2) “Taxpayer,” for purposes of this section, means the sole owner in the case of a “C” corporation, the partners in the case of a partnership, and the shareholders in the case of an “S” corporation.

(3) “Housing sponsor,” for purposes of this section, means the sole
owner in the case of a “C” corporation, the partnership in the case of a partnership, and the “S” corporation in the case of an “S” corporation.

(b) (1) The amount of the credit allocated to any housing sponsor shall be authorized by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, or any successor thereof, based on a project’s need for the credit for economic feasibility in accordance with the requirements of this section.

(A) Except for projects to provide farmworker housing, as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code, that are allocated credits solely under the set-aside described in subdivision (c) of Section 50199.20 of the Health and Safety Code, the low-income housing project shall be located in California and shall
meet either of the following requirements:

(i) The project’s housing sponsor has been allocated by the
California Tax Credit Allocation Committee a credit for federal income tax purposes under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit.

(ii) It qualifies for a credit under Section 42(h)(4)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to special rule where 25 percent or more of building is financed with tax-exempt bonds subject to volume cap.

(B) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall not require fees for the credit under this section in addition to those fees required for applications for the tax credit pursuant to Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit. The committee may require a fee if the application for the credit under this section is submitted in a calendar year after the year
the application is submitted for the federal tax credit.

(C) (i) For a project that receives a preliminary reservation of the state low-income housing tax credit, allowed pursuant to subdivision (a), on or after January 1, 2009, the credit shall be allocated to the partners of a partnership owning the project in accordance with the partnership agreement, regardless of how the federal low-income housing tax credit with respect to the project is allocated to the partners, or whether the allocation of the credit under the terms of the agreement has substantial economic effect, within the meaning of Section 704(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to determination of distributive share.

(ii) This subparagraph shall not apply to a project that receives a preliminary
reservation of state low-income housing tax credits under the set-aside described in subdivision (c) of Section 50199.20 of the Health and Safety Code unless the project also receives a preliminary reservation of federal low-income housing tax credits.

(2) (A) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall certify to the housing sponsor the amount of tax credit under this section allocated to the housing sponsor for each credit period.

(B) In the case of a partnership or an “S” corporation, the housing sponsor shall provide a copy of the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee certification to the taxpayer.

(C) (i) A taxpayer shall be eligible to claim the credit commencing in
the taxable year the building is placed in service and the federal credit period commences, notwithstanding that the certification pursuant to subparagraph (A) has not been issued by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, provided that the housing sponsor has filed a taxpayer certification with the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and delivered a copy to the taxpayer. The amount of credit claimed by the taxpayer shall not exceed the pro rata share with respect to the amount of credit that the taxpayer purchased or is allocated per the partnership agreement, as applicable, of the lesser of either of the following:

(I) The applicable percentages for each of the four credit years, as specified in subdivision (c), multiplied by the qualified basis of the building set forth in the preliminary reservation.

(II) The amount of credit the project is eligible for as stated in the taxpayer certification.

(ii) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may, but is not required to, review the taxpayer certification and other information provided by the housing sponsor to confirm both of the following:

(I) The calculations set forth in the taxpayer certification.

(II) The amount of credits allocated to the project is consistent with applicable California Tax Credit Allocation Committee rules and regulations for the purposes of making the certification required pursuant to subparagraph (A).

(iii) If the
California Tax Credit Allocation Committee issues a certification pursuant to subparagraph (A) that is inconsistent with the taxpayer certification upon which a credit has been claimed, the taxpayer shall amend any previously filed tax returns to reflect the credit amount certified by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee pursuant to subparagraph (A).

(iv) For purposes of this subparagraph, “taxpayer certification” means a certified statement from the certified public accountant of the housing sponsor. The taxpayer certification shall contain the amount of the credit the project is eligible for, the taxable year the building is placed in service, and the taxable year in which the federal credit period for the building has commenced.

(v) The taxpayer shall, upon request, provide
a copy of the taxpayer certification pursuant to clause (iv) or the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee’s certification pursuant to subparagraph (A), as applicable, to the Department of Insurance.

(vi) In the case of a failure to provide a copy of the taxpayer certification pursuant to clause (iv) or the California Tax Credit
Allocation Committee’s certification pursuant to subparagraph (A), if the Department of Insurance so requires, no credit under this section shall be allowed for that taxable year until a copy of that certification is provided.

(vii) The changes made to this subparagraph by the act adding this clause shall apply for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2023.

(D) All elections made by the taxpayer pursuant to Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, shall apply to this section.

(E) (i) Except as described in clause (ii) or (iii), for buildings located in designated difficult development areas (DDAs) or qualified census tracts (QCTs),
as defined in Section 42(d)(5)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to increase in credit for buildings in high-cost areas, credits may be allocated under this section in the amounts prescribed in subdivision (c), provided that the amount of credit allocated under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, is computed on 100 percent of the qualified basis of the building.

(ii) Notwithstanding clause (i), the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate the credit for buildings designated under Section 42(d)(5)(B)(v) of the Internal Revenue Code that are restricted to having 50 percent of the building’s occupants be special needs households, as defined in the California Code of Regulations by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, provided that the credit allowed under this section shall
not exceed 30 percent of the eligible basis of the building.

(iii) On and after January 1, 2018, notwithstanding clause (i), the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate the credit pursuant to paragraph (6) of subdivision (c) or subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (g), even if the taxpayer receives federal credits, pursuant to Section 42(d)(5)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to increase in credit for buildings in high-cost areas.

(F) (i) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate a credit under this section in exchange for a credit allocated pursuant to Section 42(d)(5)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to increase in credit for buildings in high-cost areas, in amounts up to 30 percent of the eligible
basis of a building if the credits allowed under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, are reduced by an equivalent amount.

(ii) An equivalent amount shall be determined by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee based upon the relative amount required to produce an equivalent state tax credit to the taxpayer.

(c) Section 42(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to applicable percentage: 70 percent present value credit for certain new buildings; 30 percent present value credit for certain other buildings, shall be modified as follows:

(1) In the case of any qualified low-income building that receives an allocation after 1989 and is a new building not federally subsidized,
the term “applicable percentage” means for each of the first three years, 9 percent of the qualified basis of the building, and for the fourth year, 3 percent of the qualified basis of the building.

(2) In the case of any qualified low-income building that is a new building and is federally subsidized and receiving an allocation pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (g), the term “applicable percentage” means for each of the first three years, 9 percent of the qualified basis of the building, and for the fourth year, 3 percent of the qualified basis of the building.

(3) In the case of any qualified low-income building that receives an allocation after 1989 pursuant to subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (g) and that is a new building that is federally
subsidized or that is an existing building that is “at risk of conversion,” the term “applicable percentage” means for each of the first three years, 4 percent of the qualified basis of the building, and for the fourth year, 1 percent of the qualified basis of the building.

(4) In the case of any qualified low-income building that meets all of the requirements of subparagraphs (A) through (D), inclusive, the term “applicable percentage” means 30 percent for each of the first three years and 5 percent for the fourth year. A qualified low-income building receiving an allocation under this paragraph is ineligible to also receive an allocation under paragraph (2).

(A) The qualified low-income building is at least 15 years old.

(B) The qualified low-income building is either:

(i) Serving households of very low income or extremely low income such that the average maximum household income as restricted, pursuant to an existing regulatory agreement with a federal, state, county, local, or other governmental agency, is not more than 45 percent of the area median gross income, as determined under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, adjusted by household size, and a tax credit regulatory agreement is entered into for a period of not less than 55 years restricting the average targeted household income to no more than 45 percent of the area median income.

(ii) Financed under Section 514 or 521 of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. Sec. 1485).

(C) The qualified low-income building would have insufficient credits under paragraphs (2) and (3) to complete substantial rehabilitation due to a low appraised value.

(D) The qualified low-income building will complete the substantial rehabilitation in connection with the credit allocation herein.

(5) For purposes of this section, the term “at risk of conversion,” with respect to an existing property, means a property that satisfies all of the following criteria:

(A) The property is a multifamily rental housing development in which at least 50 percent of the units receive governmental assistance pursuant to any of the following:

(i) New construction, substantial rehabilitation, moderate rehabilitation, property disposition, and loan management set-aside programs, or any other program providing project-based assistance pursuant to Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, Section 1437f of Title 42 of the United States Code, as amended.

(ii) The Below-Market-Interest-Rate Program pursuant to Section 221(d)(3) of the National Housing Act, Sections 1715l(d)(3) and (5) of Title 12 of the United States Code.

(iii) Section 236 of the National Housing Act, Section 1715z-1 of Title 12 of the United States Code.

(iv) Programs for rent supplement assistance pursuant to Section 101
of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965, Section
1701s of Title 12 of the United States Code, as amended.

(v) Programs under Sections 514, 515, 516, 533, and 538 of the Housing Act of 1949 (Public Law 81-171), as amended.

(vi) The low-income housing credit program set forth in Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, this section, and Sections 17058 and 23610.5.

(vii) Programs for loans or grants administered by the Department of Housing and Community Development.

(viii) Section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. Sec. 1701q), as amended.

(ix) Section 142(d) of the Internal Revenue Code or its predecessors.

(x) Section 147 of the Internal Revenue Code, as enacted by the Tax Reform Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-514), or as subsequently amended, including as amended by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-97) and all amendments enacted prior to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-97).

(xi) Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended.

(xii) Title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, as amended.

(xiii) Titles IV and V of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act of 1987, as amended, including the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Supportive Housing Program, Shelter Plus
Care Program, and surplus federal property disposition program.

(xiv) The following assistance provided by counties and cities in exchange for restrictions on the maximum rents that may be charged for units within a multifamily rental housing development and on the maximum tenant income as a condition of eligibility for occupancy of the unit subject to the rent restriction, as reflected by a recorded agreement with a county or city:

(I) Loans or grants provided using tax increment financing pursuant to the Community Redevelopment Law (Part 1 (commencing with Section 33000) of Division 24 of the Health and Safety Code).

(II) Local housing trust funds, as referred to in paragraph (3) of subdivision (a) of Section
50843 of the Health and Safety Code.

(III) The sale or lease of public property at or below market rates.

(IV) The granting of density bonuses, or concessions or incentives, including fee waivers, parking variances, or amendments to general plans, zoning, or redevelopment project area plans, pursuant to Chapter 4.3 (commencing with Section 65915) of Division 1 of Title 7 of the Government Code.

(B) As used in subparagraph (A), “government assistance” shall not include the use of tenant-based housing choice vouchers under subsection (o) of Section 1437f of Title 42 of the United States Code, excluding paragraph (13), relating to project-based assistance. Restrictions shall not include any rent control or rent stabilization
ordinance imposed by a county or city.

(C) If the development is subject to restrictions on rent and income levels, 50 percent of the units are also restricted to initial occupancy by lower income households, as defined in Section 50079.5 of the Health and Safety Code.

(D) The restrictions on rent and income levels, excluding any restrictions recorded pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (e) of Section 65863.11 or Section 65863.13 of the Government Code or in connection with interim or acquisition financing, will terminate or the federally insured mortgage or rent subsidy contract on the property is eligible for prepayment or termination any time within five years before or after the date of application to the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee.

(E) The entity acquiring the property enters into a regulatory agreement that requires the property to be operated in accordance with the requirements of Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code and any further requirements added by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee to implement the low-income housing tax credit established by Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. Sec. 42), this section, and Sections 17058 and 23610.5 pursuant to Chapter 3.6 (commencing with Section 50199.4) of Part 1 of Division 31 of the Health and Safety Code.

(F) The property satisfies the requirements of Section 42(e) of
the Internal Revenue Code, relating to rehabilitation expenditures treated as separate new building, except that the provisions of Section 42(e)(3)(A)(ii)(I) shall not apply.

(6) On and after January 1, 2018, in the case of any qualified low-income building that is (A) farmworker housing, as defined by paragraph (2) of subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code, and (B) is federally subsidized, the term “applicable percentage” means for each of the first three years, 20 percent of the qualified basis of the building, and for the fourth year, 15 percent of the qualified basis of the building.

(d) The term “qualified low-income housing project” as defined in Section 42(c)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to qualified low-income building, is
modified by adding the following requirements:

(1) The taxpayer shall be entitled to receive a cash distribution from the operations of the project, after funding required reserves, that, at the election of the taxpayer, is equal to:

(A) An amount not to exceed 8 percent of the lesser of:

(i) The owner equity that shall include the amount of the capital contributions actually paid to the housing sponsor and shall not include any amounts until they are paid on an investor note.

(ii) Twenty percent of the adjusted basis of the building as of
the close of the first taxable year of the credit period.

(B) The amount of the cashflow from those units in the building that are not low-income units. For purposes of computing cashflow under this subparagraph, operating costs shall be allocated to the low-income units using the “floor space fraction,” as defined in Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit.

(C) Any amount allowed to be distributed under subparagraph (A) that is not available for distribution during the first 5 years of the compliance period may be accumulated and distributed any time during the first 15 years of the compliance period but not thereafter.

(2) The limitation on return shall apply in the
aggregate to the partners if the housing sponsor is a partnership and in the aggregate to the shareholders if the housing sponsor is an “S” corporation.

(3) The housing sponsor shall apply any cash available for distribution in excess of the amount eligible to be distributed under paragraph (1) to reduce the rent on rent-restricted units or to increase the number of rent-restricted units subject to the tests of Section 42(g)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to in general.

(e) The provisions of Section 42(f) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to definition and special rules relating to credit period, shall be modified as follows:

(1) The term “credit period” as defined in Section 42(f)(1) of the
Internal Revenue Code, relating to credit period defined, is modified by substituting “four taxable years” for “10 taxable years.”

(2) The special rule for the first taxable year of the credit period under Section 42(f)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to special rule for 1st year of credit period, shall not apply to the tax credit under this section.

(3) Section 42(f)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to determination of applicable percentage with respect to increases in qualified basis after 1st year of credit period, is modified to read:

If, as of the close of any taxable year in the compliance period, after the first year of the credit period, the qualified basis of any building exceeds the qualified basis of
that building as of the close of the first year of the credit period, the housing sponsor, to the extent of its tax credit allocation, shall be eligible for a credit on the excess in an amount equal to the applicable percentage determined pursuant to subdivision (c) for the four-year period beginning with the later of the taxable years in which the increase in qualified basis occurs.

(f) The provisions of Section 42(h) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to limitation on aggregate credit allowable with respect to projects located in a state, shall be modified as follows:

(1) Section 42(h)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to allocated credit amount to apply to all taxable years ending during or after credit allocation year, does not apply and instead the following
provisions apply:

The total amount for the four-year credit period of the housing credit dollars allocated in a calendar year to any building shall reduce the aggregate housing credit dollar amount of the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee for the calendar year in which the allocation is made.

(2) Paragraphs (3), (4), (5), (6)(E)(i)(II), (6)(F), (6)(G), (6)(I), (7), and (8) of Section 42(h) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to limitation on aggregate credit allowable with respect to projects located in a state, do not apply to this section.

(g) The aggregate housing credit dollar amount that may be allocated annually by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee pursuant to this section, Section 17058, and Section 23610.5
shall be an amount equal to the sum of all the following:

(1) (A) Seventy million dollars ($70,000,000) for the 2001 calendar year, and, for the 2002 calendar year and each calendar year thereafter, seventy million dollars ($70,000,000) increased by the percentage, if any, by which the Consumer Price Index for the preceding calendar year exceeds the Consumer Price Index for the 2001 calendar year. For the purposes of this paragraph, the term “Consumer Price Index” means the last Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers published by the United States Department of Labor.

(B) Five hundred million dollars ($500,000,000) for the 2020 calendar year, and up to five hundred million dollars ($500,000,000) for the 2021 calendar year and every year thereafter.
Allocations shall only be available pursuant to this subparagraph in the 2021 calendar year and thereafter if the annual Budget Act, or if any bill providing for appropriations related to the Budget Act, specifies an amount to be available for allocation in that calendar year by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, after the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee have adopted regulations, rules, or guidelines to align the programs of both committees with the objective of increasing production and containing costs as described in clause (iii). The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall accept applications for the 2021 calendar year not sooner than 30 days after these regulations, rules, or guidelines have been adopted. The California Debt Limit Allocation Committee shall not accept applications for the 2021 calendar year for bond
allocations for an eligible project under this section prior to issuing, reviewing, and publishing a new tax-exempt private activity bond demand survey. A housing sponsor receiving a nonfederally subsidized allocation under subdivision (c) shall not be eligible for receipt of the housing credit allocated from the increased amount under this subparagraph. Except as provided in clause (vi), a housing sponsor receiving a nonfederally subsidized allocation under subdivision (c) shall remain eligible for receipt of the housing credit allocated from the credit ceiling amount under subparagraph (A).

(i) Eligible projects for allocations under this subparagraph include any new building, as defined in Section 42(i)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to newly constructed buildings, and the regulations promulgated thereunder, excluding rehabilitation
expenditures under Section 42(e) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to rehabilitation expenditures treated as separate new building, and is federally subsidized. Eligible projects for allocations under this subparagraph also include any retrofitting and repurposing of existing nonresidential structures, including, but not limited to, hotels and motels, that were converted to residential use within the previous five years from the date of the application.

(ii) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, for allocations pursuant to this subparagraph for the 2020 calendar year, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall consider projects located throughout the state and shall allocate housing credits, subject to the minimum federal requirements as set forth in Sections 42 and 142 of the Internal Revenue Code, the
minimum requirements set forth in Sections 5033 and 5190 of the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee regulations, and the minimum set forth in Section 10326 of the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee regulations, for projects that can begin construction within 180 days from award, subject to availability of funds.

(iii) (I) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, for allocations pursuant to this subparagraph for the 2021 calendar year and thereafter, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee shall develop and prescribe regulations, rules, or guidelines necessary to implement a new allocation methodology that is aimed at increasing production and containing costs, which would include a scoring system that maximizes the efficient use of public
subsidy and benefit created through the private activity bond and low-income housing tax credit programs. The factors for determining the efficient use of public subsidy and benefit shall include, but not be limited to, all of the following:

(ia) The number and size of units developed including local incentives provided to increase density.

(ib) The proximity to amenities, jobs, and public transportation.

(ic) The location of the development.

(id) The delivery of housing affordable to very low and extremely low income households by the development.

(II) The efficient use of public subsidy and benefit
criteria specified in this clause shall take into account the total state subsidy provided and prioritize cost containment and increased unit production. These regulations, rules, or guidelines developed pursuant to this subparagraph shall also consider updated definitions for at-risk preservation and new construction.

(III) For bond allocations for the 2021 calendar year to projects eligible for an allocation under this subparagraph, the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee may adopt emergency regulations.

(IV) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall consider amending the regulations establishing a scoring system, as required by this clause, to also grant, for farmworker housing as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety
Code, maximum points to farmworker housing projects under the housing needs category, and an initial five points in the category for site amenities beyond those required as additional thresholds.

(iv) Of the amount available pursuant to this subparagraph, and notwithstanding any other requirement of this section, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate up to two hundred million dollars ($200,000,000) for housing financed by the California Housing Finance Agency under its Mixed-Income Program.

(v) (I) For the calendar years of 2024 to 2034, inclusive, of the amount available pursuant to this subparagraph, the lesser of 5 percent of that amount or twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000) per calendar year shall be set aside for projects to
provide farmworker housing, as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code, and administered consistent with the credits available pursuant to paragraph (4).

(II) Any credits pursuant to this clause that remain unallocated following the conclusion of a funding round shall roll over to consecutive subsequent funding rounds in that calendar year with the exception that any credits that remain unallocated after the final funding round in that calendar year shall be added back to the aggregate amount of credits that may be allocated pursuant to this subparagraph.

(III) For the 2035 calendar year, and every year thereafter, of the amount available pursuant to this subparagraph, a portion of the amount allocated shall be set aside for projects to
provide farmworker housing, as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code. The amount set aside shall be determined by the Legislature upon consideration of the comprehensive strategy, or most recent update thereof, provided by the Department of Housing and Community Development pursuant to subdivision (c) of Section 50408.5 of the Health and Safety Code.

(vi) (I) For any calendar year in which the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee has declared a competition for the award of tax-exempt bond authority for qualified residential rental projects, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate some or all of the credits allocated under this subparagraph, except for any credits allocated for housing financed by the California Housing Finance Agency under its
Mixed-Income Program, for nonfederally subsidized buildings eligible for credits under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, and shall allocate the remainder of these credits for new buildings, as defined in Section 42(i)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to new buildings, that are federally subsidized and that can begin construction within a reasonable time, as determined by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee.

(II) For any calendar year in which the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee has not declared a competition for the award of tax-exempt bond authority for qualified residential rental projects, projects receiving an award of credits pursuant to this subparagraph shall begin construction within a reasonable time, as determined by the California Tax Credit Allocation
Committee.

(III) Notwithstanding subclauses (I) and (II), if credits available under this subparagraph remain unallocated after the final California Debt Limit Allocation Committee round for qualified residential rental projects in a given calendar year, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate some or all of the remaining credits for nonfederally subsidized buildings eligible for credits under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit.

(2) The unused housing credit ceiling, if any, for the preceding calendar years.

(3) The amount of housing credit ceiling returned in the calendar year. For purposes of this paragraph, the amount of housing credit dollar amount
returned in the calendar year equals the housing credit dollar amount previously allocated to any project that does not become a qualified low-income housing project within the period required by this section or to any project with respect to which an allocation is canceled by mutual consent of the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and the allocation recipient.

(4) Five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) per calendar year for projects to provide farmworker housing, as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code.

(5) The amount of any unallocated or returned credits under former Sections 17053.14, 23608.2, and 23608.3, as those sections read prior to January 1, 2009, until fully exhausted for projects to provide farmworker housing, as
defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code.

(h) The term “compliance period” as defined in Section 42(i)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to compliance period, is modified to mean, with respect to any building, the period of 30 consecutive taxable years beginning with the first taxable year of the credit period with respect thereto.

(i) (1) Section 42(j) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to recapture of credit, shall not be applicable and the provisions in paragraph (2) shall be substituted in its place.

(2) The requirements of this section shall be set forth in a regulatory agreement between the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and the housing sponsor,
and the regulatory agreement shall be subordinated, when required, to any lien or encumbrance of any banks or other institutional lenders to the project. The regulatory agreement entered into pursuant to subdivision (f) of Section 50199.14 of the Health and Safety Code, shall apply, provided that the agreement includes all of the following provisions:

(A) A term not less than the compliance period.

(B) A requirement that the agreement be recorded in the official records of the county in which the qualified low-income housing project is located.

(C) A provision stating which state and local agencies can enforce the regulatory agreement in the event the housing sponsor fails to satisfy any of the requirements of this
section.

(D) A provision that the regulatory agreement shall be deemed a contract enforceable by tenants as third-party beneficiaries thereto and that allows individuals, whether prospective, present, or former occupants of the building, who meet the income limitation applicable to the building, the right to enforce the regulatory agreement in any state court.

(E) A provision incorporating the requirements of Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, as modified by this section.

(F) A requirement that the housing sponsor notify the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee or its designee and the local agency that can enforce the regulatory agreement if there is a determination
by the Internal Revenue Service that the project is not in compliance with Section 42(g) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to qualified low-income housing project.

(G) A requirement that the housing sponsor, as security for the performance of the housing sponsor’s obligations under the regulatory agreement, assign the housing sponsor’s interest in rents that it receives from the project, provided that until there is a default under the regulatory agreement, the housing sponsor is entitled to collect and retain the rents.

(H) A provision that the remedies available in the event of a default under the regulatory agreement that is not cured within a reasonable cure period include, but are not limited to, allowing any of the parties designated to enforce the regulatory agreement to
collect all rents with respect to the project; taking possession of the project and operating the project in accordance with the regulatory agreement until the enforcer determines the housing sponsor is in a position to operate the project in accordance with the regulatory agreement; applying to any court for specific performance; securing the appointment of a receiver to operate the project; or any other relief as may be appropriate.

(j) (1) The committee shall allocate the housing credit on a regular basis consisting of two or more periods in each calendar year during which applications may be filed and considered. The committee shall establish application filing deadlines, the maximum percentage of federal and state low-income housing tax credit ceiling that may be allocated by the committee in that period, and the
approximate date on which allocations shall be made. If the enactment of federal or state law, the adoption of rules or regulations, or other similar events prevent the use of two allocation periods, the committee may reduce the number of periods and adjust the filing deadlines, maximum percentage of credit allocated, and the allocation dates.

(2) The committee shall adopt a qualified allocation plan, as provided in Section 42(m)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to plans for allocation of credit among projects. In adopting this plan, the committee shall comply with the provisions of Sections 42(m)(1)(B) and 42(m)(1)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to qualified allocation plan and relating to certain selection criteria must be used, respectively.

(3) Notwithstanding Section 42(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to responsibilities of housing credit agencies, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall allocate housing credits in accordance with the qualified allocation plan and regulations, which shall include the following provisions:

(A) All housing sponsors, as defined by paragraph (3) of subdivision (a), shall demonstrate at the time the application is filed with the committee that the project meets the following threshold requirements:

(i) The housing sponsor shall demonstrate there is a need and demand for low-income housing in the community or region for which it is proposed.

(ii) The project’s proposed financing, including tax
credit proceeds, shall be sufficient to complete the project and that the proposed operating income shall be adequate to operate the project for the extended use period.

(iii) The project shall have enforceable financing commitments, either construction or permanent financing, for at least 50 percent of the total estimated financing of the project.

(iv) The housing sponsor shall have and maintain control of the site for the project.

(v) The housing sponsor shall demonstrate that the project complies with all applicable local land use and zoning ordinances.

(vi) The housing sponsor shall demonstrate that the project development team has the experience and the
financial capacity to ensure project completion and operation for the extended use period.

(vii) The housing sponsor shall demonstrate the amount of tax credit that is necessary for the financial feasibility of the project and its viability as a qualified low-income housing project throughout the extended use period, taking into account operating expenses, a supportable debt service, reserves, funds set aside for rental subsidies and required equity, and a development fee that does not exceed a specified percentage of the eligible basis of the project prior to inclusion of the development fee in the eligible basis, as determined by the committee.

(B) The committee shall give a preference to those projects satisfying all of the threshold requirements of subparagraph (A) if
both of the following apply:

(i) The project serves the lowest income tenants at rents affordable to those tenants.

(ii) The project is obligated to serve qualified tenants for the longest period.

(C) In addition to the provisions of subparagraphs (A) and (B), the committee shall use the following criteria in allocating housing credits:

(i) Projects serving large families in which a substantial number, as defined by the committee, of all residential units are low-income units with three or more bedrooms.

(ii) Projects providing single-room occupancy units serving very low income tenants.

(iii) Existing projects that are “at risk of conversion,” as defined by paragraph (5) of subdivision (c).

(iv) Projects for which a public agency provides direct or indirect long-term financial support for at least 15 percent of the total project development costs or projects for which the owner’s equity constitutes at least 30 percent of the total project development costs.

(v) Projects that provide tenant amenities not generally available to residents of low-income housing projects.

(D) Subparagraphs (B) and (C) shall not apply to projects receiving an allocation pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (g).

(4) For purposes of allocating credits pursuant to this section, the committee shall not give preference to any project by virtue of the date of submission of its application except to break a tie when two or more of the projects have an equal rating.

(k) Section 42(l) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to certifications and other reports to secretary, shall be modified as follows:

The term “secretary” shall be replaced by the term “Franchise Tax Board.”

(l) In the case in which the credit allowed under this section exceeds the “tax,” the excess may be carried over to reduce the “tax” in the following year, and succeeding years if necessary, until the credit has
been exhausted.

(m) The provisions of Section 11407(a) of Public Law 101-508, relating to the effective date of the extension of the low-income housing credit, apply to calendar years after 1993.

(n) The provisions of Section 11407(c) of Public Law 101-508, relating to election to accelerate credit, shall not apply.

(o) (1) (A) For a project that receives a preliminary reservation under this section beginning on or after January 1, 2016, a taxpayer may elect, in the manner prescribed by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, to sell all or any portion of any credit allowed under this section to one or more unrelated parties for each taxable year in which the credit is
allowed, subject to subparagraph (B). The taxpayer may make the election to sell pursuant to this subdivision at any time before the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee allocates a final credit amount for the project pursuant to this section, at which point the election shall become irrevocable.

(B) A credit that a taxpayer elects to sell all or a portion of pursuant to this subdivision shall be sold for consideration that is not less than 80 percent of the amount of the credit.

(2) (A) The taxpayer that originally received the credit shall report to the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee within 10 days of the sale of the credit, in the form and manner specified by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, all required information
regarding the purchase and sale of the credit, including the social security or other taxpayer identification number of the unrelated party or parties to whom the credit has been sold, the face amount of the credit sold, and the amount of consideration received by the taxpayer for the sale of the credit.

(B) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall provide an annual listing to the Franchise Tax Board, in a form and manner agreed upon by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and the Franchise Tax Board, of the taxpayers that have sold or purchased a credit pursuant to this subdivision.

(3) A credit may be sold pursuant to this subdivision to more than one unrelated party.

(4) Notwithstanding any other
law, the taxpayer that originally received the credit that is sold pursuant to paragraph (1) shall remain solely liable for all obligations and liabilities imposed on the taxpayer by this section with respect to the credit, none of which shall apply to a party to whom the credit has been sold or subsequently transferred. Parties that purchase credits pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be entitled to utilize the purchased credits in the same manner in which the taxpayer that originally received the credit could utilize them.

(p) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may prescribe rules, guidelines, or procedures necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this section, including any guidelines regarding the allocation of the credit allowed under this section. Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division
3 of Title 2 of the Government Code shall not apply to any rule, guideline, or procedure prescribed by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee pursuant to this section.

(q) This section shall remain in effect for as long as Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, remains in effect.

SEC. 12.5.
Section 12206 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is amended to read:

12206.
(a) (1) There shall be allowed as a credit against the “tax,” described by Section 12201, a state low-income housing tax credit in an amount equal to the amount determined in subdivision (c), computed in accordance with Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, except as otherwise provided in this section.

(2) “Taxpayer,” for purposes of this section, means the sole owner in the case of a “C” corporation, the partners in the case of a partnership, and the shareholders in the case of an “S” corporation.

(3) “Housing sponsor,” for purposes of this section, means the sole owner in the case of a “C” corporation, the partnership in the case of
a partnership, and the “S” corporation in the case of an “S” corporation.

(b) (1) The amount of the credit allocated to any housing sponsor shall be authorized by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, or any successor thereof, based on a project’s need for the credit for economic feasibility in accordance with the requirements of this section.

(A) Except for projects to provide farmworker housing, as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code, that are allocated credits solely under the set-aside described in subdivision (c) of Section 50199.20 of the Health and Safety Code, the low-income housing project shall be located in California and shall meet either of the following requirements:

(i) The project’s housing sponsor has been allocated by the
California Tax Credit Allocation Committee a credit for federal income tax purposes under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit.

(ii) It qualifies for a credit under Section 42(h)(4)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to special rule where 25 percent or more of building is financed with tax-exempt bonds subject to volume cap.

(B) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall not require fees for the credit under this section in addition to those fees required for applications for the tax credit pursuant to Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit. The committee may require a fee if the application
for the credit under this section is submitted in a calendar year after the year the application is submitted for the federal tax credit.

(C) (i) For a project that receives a preliminary reservation of the state low-income housing tax credit, allowed pursuant to subdivision (a), on or after January 1, 2009, the credit shall be allocated to the partners of a partnership owning the project in accordance with the partnership agreement, regardless of how the federal low-income housing tax credit with respect to the project is allocated to the partners, or whether the allocation of the credit under the terms of the agreement has substantial economic effect, within the meaning of Section 704(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to determination of distributive share.

(ii) This subparagraph shall not apply to a project that receives a preliminary reservation
of state low-income housing tax credits under the set-aside described in subdivision (c) of Section 50199.20 of the Health and Safety Code unless the project also receives a preliminary reservation of federal low-income housing tax credits.

(2) (A) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall certify to the housing sponsor the amount of tax credit under this section allocated to the housing sponsor for each credit period.

(B) In the case of a partnership or an “S” corporation, the housing sponsor shall provide a copy of the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee certification to the taxpayer.

(C) (i) A taxpayer shall be eligible to claim the credit commencing in the taxable year the building is placed in service and the federal credit period commences,
notwithstanding that the certification pursuant to subparagraph (A) has not been issued by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, provided that the housing sponsor has filed a taxpayer certification with the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and delivered a copy to the taxpayer. The amount of credit claimed by the taxpayer shall not exceed the pro rata share with respect to the amount of credit that the taxpayer purchased or is allocated per the partnership agreement, as applicable, of the lesser of either of the following:

(I) The applicable percentages for each of the four credit years, as specified in subdivision (c), multiplied by the qualified basis of the building set forth in the preliminary reservation.

(II) The amount of credit the project is eligible for as stated in the taxpayer certification.

(ii) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may, but is not required to, review the taxpayer certification and other information provided by the housing sponsor to confirm both of the following:

(I) The calculations set forth in the taxpayer certification.

(II) The amount of credits allocated to the project is consistent with applicable California Tax Credit Allocation Committee rules and regulations for the purposes of making the certification required pursuant to subparagraph (A).

(iii) If the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee issues a certification pursuant to subparagraph (A) that is inconsistent with the taxpayer certification upon which a credit has been claimed, the taxpayer shall amend any previously filed tax returns to reflect the credit amount certified by the California Tax
Credit Allocation Committee pursuant to subparagraph (A).

(iv) For purposes of this subparagraph, “taxpayer certification” means a certified statement from the certified public accountant of the housing sponsor. The taxpayer certification shall contain the amount of the credit the project is eligible for, the taxable year the building is placed in service, and the taxable year in which the federal credit period for the building has commenced.

(v) The taxpayer shall, upon request, provide a copy of the taxpayer certification pursuant to clause (iv) or the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee’s certification pursuant to subparagraph (A), as applicable, to the Department of Insurance.

(vi) In the case of a failure to provide a copy of the taxpayer certification pursuant to clause (iv) or the California Tax Credit
Allocation Committee’s certification pursuant to subparagraph (A), if the Department of Insurance so requires, no credit under this section shall be allowed for that taxable year until a copy of that certification is provided.

(vii) The changes made to this subparagraph by the act adding this clause shall apply for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2023.

(D) All elections made by the taxpayer pursuant to Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, shall apply to this section.

(E) (i) Except as described in clause (ii) or (iii), for buildings located in designated difficult development areas (DDAs) or qualified census tracts (QCTs), as defined in Section 42(d)(5)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to increase in credit for buildings in
high-cost areas, credits may be allocated under this section in the amounts prescribed in subdivision (c), provided that the amount of credit allocated under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, is computed on 100 percent of the qualified basis of the building.

(ii) Notwithstanding clause (i), the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate the credit for buildings designated under Section 42(d)(5)(B)(v) of the Internal Revenue Code that are restricted to having 50 percent of the building’s occupants be special needs households, as defined in the California Code of Regulations by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee,
provided that the credit allowed under this section shall not exceed 30 percent of the eligible basis of the building.

(iii) On and after January 1, 2018, notwithstanding clause (i), the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate the credit pursuant to paragraph (6) of subdivision (c) or subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (g), even if the taxpayer receives federal credits, pursuant to Section 42(d)(5)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to increase in credit for buildings in high-cost areas.

(F) (i) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate a credit under this section in exchange for a credit allocated pursuant to Section 42(d)(5)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to increase
in credit for buildings in high-cost areas, in amounts up to 30 percent of the eligible basis of a building if the credits allowed under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, are reduced by an equivalent amount.

(ii) An equivalent amount shall be determined by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee based upon the relative amount required to produce an equivalent state tax credit to the taxpayer.

(c) Section 42(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to applicable percentage: 70 percent present value credit for certain new buildings; 30 percent present value credit for certain other buildings, shall be modified as follows:

(1) In the case of any qualified low-income building that receives an allocation after 1989 and is a new building not federally subsidized, the
term “applicable percentage” means for each of the first three years, 9 percent of the qualified basis of the building, and for the fourth year, 3 percent of the qualified basis of the building.

(2) In the case of any qualified low-income building that is a new building and is federally subsidized and receiving an allocation pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (g), the term “applicable percentage” means for each of the first three years, 9 percent of the qualified basis of the building, and for the fourth year, 3 percent of the qualified basis of
the building.

(3) In the case of any qualified low-income building that receives an allocation after 1989 pursuant to subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (g) and that is a new building that is federally subsidized or that is an existing building that is “at risk of conversion,” the term “applicable percentage” means for each of the first three years, 4 percent of the qualified basis of the building, and for the fourth year, 1 percent of the qualified basis of the building.

(4) In the case of any qualified low-income building that meets all of the requirements of subparagraphs (A) through (D), inclusive, the term “applicable percentage” means 30 percent for each of the first three years and 5 percent for the fourth year. A qualified low-income building receiving an allocation under this paragraph is ineligible to also receive an allocation under paragraph (2).

(A) The qualified low-income building is at least 15 years old.

(B) The qualified low-income building is either:

(i) Serving households of very low income or extremely low income such that the average maximum household income as restricted, pursuant to an existing regulatory agreement with a federal, state, county, local, or other governmental agency, is not more than
45 percent of the area median gross income, as determined under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, adjusted by household size, and a tax credit regulatory agreement is entered into for a period of not less than 55 years restricting the average targeted household income to no more than 45 percent of the area median income.

(ii) Financed under Section 514 or 521 of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. Sec. 1485).

(C) The qualified low-income building would have insufficient credits under paragraphs (2) and (3) to complete substantial rehabilitation due to a low appraised value.

(D) The qualified low-income building will complete the substantial rehabilitation in connection with the
credit allocation herein.

(5) For purposes of this section, the term “at risk of conversion,” with respect to an existing property, means a property that satisfies all of the following criteria:

(A) The property is a multifamily rental housing development in which at least 50 percent of the units receive governmental assistance pursuant to any of the following:

(i) New construction, substantial rehabilitation, moderate rehabilitation, property disposition, and loan management set-aside programs, or any other program providing project-based assistance pursuant to Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, Section 1437f of Title 42 of the United States Code, as amended.

(ii) The Below-Market-Interest-Rate Program pursuant to Section 221(d)(3) of
the National Housing Act, Sections 1715l(d)(3) and (5) of Title 12 of the United States Code.

(iii) Section 236 of the National Housing Act, Section 1715z-1 of Title 12 of the United States Code.

(iv) Programs for rent supplement assistance pursuant to Section 101 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965, Section 1701s of Title 12 of the United States Code, as amended.

(v) Programs under Sections 514, 515, 516, 533, and 538 of the Housing Act of 1949 (Public Law 81-171), as amended.

(vi) The low-income housing credit program set forth in Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, this section, and Sections 17058 and 23610.5.

(vii) Programs for loans or grants administered by the Department of Housing and Community Development.

(viii) Section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. Sec. 1701q), as amended.

(ix) Section 142(d) of the Internal Revenue Code or its predecessors.

(x) Section 147 of the Internal Revenue Code, as enacted by the Tax Reform Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-514), or as subsequently amended, including as amended by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-97) and all amendments enacted prior to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-97).

(xi) Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended.

(xii) Title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez
National Affordable Housing Act, as amended.

(xiii) Titles IV and V of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act of 1987, as amended, including the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Supportive Housing Program, Shelter Plus Care Program, and surplus federal property disposition program.

(xiv) The following assistance provided by counties and cities in exchange for restrictions on the maximum rents that may be charged for units within a multifamily rental housing development and on the maximum tenant income as a condition of eligibility for occupancy of the unit subject to the rent restriction, as reflected by a recorded agreement with a county or city:

(I) Loans or grants provided using tax increment financing pursuant to the Community Redevelopment Law (Part 1 (commencing with Section 33000) of Division 24 of the Health and Safety Code).

(II) Local housing trust funds, as referred to in paragraph (3) of subdivision (a) of Section 50843 of the Health and Safety Code.

(III) The sale or lease of public property at or below market rates.

(IV) The granting of density bonuses, or concessions or incentives, including fee waivers, parking variances, or amendments to general plans, zoning, or redevelopment project area plans, pursuant to Chapter 4.3 (commencing with Section 65915) of Division 1 of Title 7 of the Government Code.

(B) As used in
subparagraph (A), “government assistance” shall not include the use of tenant-based housing choice vouchers under subsection (o) of Section 1437f of Title 42 of the United States Code, excluding paragraph (13), relating to project-based assistance. Restrictions shall not include any rent control or rent stabilization ordinance imposed by a county or city.

(C) If the development is subject to restrictions on rent and income levels, 50 percent of the units are also restricted to initial occupancy by lower income households, as defined in Section 50079.5 of the Health and Safety Code.

(D) The restrictions on rent and income levels, excluding any restrictions recorded pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (e) of Section 65863.11 or Section 65863.13 of the Government Code or in connection with interim or acquisition financing, will terminate or the federally insured mortgage or rent
subsidy contract on the property is eligible for prepayment or termination any time within five years before or after the date of application to the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee.

(E) The entity acquiring the property enters into a regulatory agreement that requires the property to be operated in accordance with the requirements of Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code and any further requirements added by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee to implement the low-income housing tax credit established by Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. Sec. 42), this section, and Sections 17058 and 23610.5 pursuant to Chapter 3.6 (commencing with Section 50199.4) of Part 1 of Division 31 of the Health and Safety Code.

(F) The property satisfies the requirements of Section 42(e) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to rehabilitation expenditures treated
as separate new building, except that the provisions of Section 42(e)(3)(A)(ii)(I) shall not apply.

(6) On and after January 1, 2018, in the case of any qualified low-income building that is (A) farmworker housing, as defined by paragraph (2) of subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code, and (B) is federally subsidized, the term “applicable percentage” means for each of the first three years, 20 percent of the qualified basis of the building, and for the fourth year, 15 percent of the qualified basis of the building.

(d) The term “qualified low-income housing project” as defined in Section 42(c)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to qualified low-income building, is modified by adding the following requirements:

(1) The taxpayer shall be entitled to receive a cash distribution from the
operations of the project, after funding required reserves, that, at the election of the taxpayer, is equal to:

(A) An amount not to exceed 8 percent of the lesser of:

(i) The owner equity that shall include the amount of the capital contributions actually paid to the housing sponsor and shall not include any amounts until they are paid on an investor note.

(ii) Twenty percent of the adjusted basis of the building as of the close of the first taxable year of the credit period.

(B) The amount of the cashflow from those units in the building that are not low-income units. For purposes of computing cashflow under this subparagraph, operating costs shall be allocated to the low-income units using the “floor space fraction,” as defined in Section 42 of the
Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit.

(C) Any amount allowed to be distributed under subparagraph (A) that is not available for distribution during the first 5 years of the compliance period may be accumulated and distributed any time during the first 15 years of the compliance period but not thereafter.

(2) The limitation on return shall apply in the aggregate to the partners if the housing sponsor is a partnership and in the aggregate to the shareholders if the housing sponsor is an “S” corporation.

(3) The housing sponsor shall apply any cash available for distribution in excess of the amount eligible to be distributed under paragraph (1) to reduce the rent on rent-restricted units or to increase the number of rent-restricted units subject to the tests of Section 42(g)(1) of the Internal
Revenue Code, relating to in general.

(e) The provisions of Section 42(f) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to definition and special rules relating to credit period, shall be modified as follows:

(1) The term “credit period” as defined in Section 42(f)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to credit period defined, is modified by substituting “four taxable years” for “10 taxable years.”

(2) The special rule for the first taxable year of the credit period under Section 42(f)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to special rule for 1st year of credit period, shall not apply to the tax credit under this section.

(3) Section 42(f)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to determination of applicable percentage with respect to increases in
qualified basis after 1st year of credit period, is modified to read:

If, as of the close of any taxable year in the compliance period, after the first year of the credit period, the qualified basis of any building exceeds the qualified basis of that building as of the close of the first year of the credit period, the housing sponsor, to the extent of its tax credit allocation, shall be eligible for a credit on the excess in an amount equal to the applicable percentage determined pursuant to subdivision (c) for the four-year period beginning with the later of the taxable years in which the increase in qualified basis occurs.

(f) The provisions of Section 42(h) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to limitation on aggregate credit allowable with respect to projects located in a state, shall be modified as follows:

(1) Section 42(h)(2) of
the Internal Revenue Code, relating to allocated credit amount to apply to all taxable years ending during or after credit allocation year, does not apply and instead the following provisions apply:

The total amount for the four-year credit period of the housing credit dollars allocated in a calendar year to any building shall reduce the aggregate housing credit dollar amount of the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee for the calendar year in which the allocation is made.

(2) Paragraphs (3), (4), (5), (6)(E)(i)(II), (6)(F), (6)(G), (6)(I), (7), and (8) of Section 42(h) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to limitation on aggregate credit allowable with respect to projects located in a state, do not apply to this section.

(g) The aggregate housing credit dollar amount that may be allocated annually by the California Tax Credit
Allocation Committee pursuant to this section, Section 17058, and Section 23610.5 shall be an amount equal to the sum of all the following:

(1) (A) Seventy million dollars ($70,000,000) for the 2001 calendar year, and, for the 2002 calendar year and each calendar year thereafter, seventy million dollars ($70,000,000) increased by the percentage, if any, by which the Consumer Price Index for the preceding calendar year exceeds the Consumer Price Index for the 2001 calendar year. For the purposes of this paragraph, the term “Consumer Price Index” means the last Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers published by the United States Department of Labor.

(B) Five
hundred million dollars ($500,000,000) for the 2020 calendar year, and up to five hundred million dollars ($500,000,000) for the 2021 calendar year and every year thereafter. Allocations shall only be available pursuant to this subparagraph in the 2021 calendar year and thereafter if the annual Budget Act, or if any bill providing for appropriations related to the Budget Act, specifies an amount to be available for allocation in that calendar year by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, after the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee have adopted regulations, rules, or guidelines to align the programs of both committees with the objective of increasing production and containing costs as described in clause (iii). The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall accept applications for the 2021 calendar year not sooner than 30 days after these regulations, rules, or guidelines have been adopted. The California Debt Limit Allocation
Committee shall not accept applications for the 2021 calendar year for bond allocations for an eligible project under this section prior to issuing, reviewing, and publishing a new tax-exempt private activity bond demand survey. A housing sponsor receiving a nonfederally subsidized allocation under subdivision (c) shall not be eligible for receipt of the housing credit allocated from the increased amount under this subparagraph. Except as provided in clause (vi), a housing sponsor receiving a nonfederally subsidized allocation under subdivision (c) shall remain eligible for receipt of the housing credit allocated from the credit ceiling amount under subparagraph (A).

(i) Eligible projects for allocations under this subparagraph include any new building, as defined in Section 42(i)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to newly constructed buildings, and the regulations promulgated thereunder, excluding rehabilitation expenditures under
Section 42(e) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to rehabilitation expenditures treated as separate new building, and is federally subsidized. Eligible projects for allocations under this subparagraph also include any retrofitting and repurposing of existing nonresidential structures, including, but not limited to, hotels and motels, that were converted to residential use within the previous five years from the date of the application.

(ii) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, for allocations pursuant to this subparagraph for the 2020 calendar year, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall consider projects located throughout the state and shall allocate housing credits, subject to the minimum federal requirements as set forth in Sections 42 and 142 of the Internal Revenue Code, the minimum requirements set forth in Sections 5033 and 5190 of the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee regulations, and the
minimum set forth in Section 10326 of the
California Tax Credit Allocation Committee regulations, for projects that can begin construction within 180 days from award, subject to availability of funds.

(iii) (I) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, for allocations pursuant to this subparagraph for the 2021 calendar year and thereafter, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee shall develop and prescribe regulations, rules, or guidelines necessary to implement a new allocation methodology that is aimed at increasing production and containing costs, which would include a scoring system that maximizes the efficient use of public subsidy and benefit created through the private activity bond and low-income housing tax credit programs. The factors for determining the efficient use of public subsidy and benefit shall include, but not be limited to, all of
the following:

(ia) The number and size of units developed including local incentives provided to increase density.

(ib) The proximity to amenities, jobs, and public transportation.

(ic) The location of the development.

(id) The delivery of housing affordable to very low and extremely low income households by the development.

(II) The efficient use of public subsidy and benefit criteria specified in this clause shall take into account the total state subsidy provided and prioritize cost containment and increased unit production. These regulations, rules, or guidelines developed pursuant to this subparagraph shall also consider updated definitions for at-risk preservation and new
construction.

(III) For bond allocations for the 2021 calendar year to projects eligible for an allocation under this subparagraph, the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee may adopt emergency regulations.

(IV) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall consider amending the regulations establishing a scoring system, as required by this clause, to also grant, for farmworker housing as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code, maximum points to farmworker housing projects under the housing needs category, and an initial five points in the category for site amenities beyond those required as additional thresholds.

(V) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall consider amending
the regulations establishing a scoring system, as required by this clause, to establish a housing type for farmworker housing projects. For the purpose of assigning points based on the proximity of amenities to an eligible farmworker housing project, the committee shall consider using the same point allocations as provided for rural set-aside projects.

(iv) Of the amount available pursuant to this subparagraph, and notwithstanding any other requirement of this section, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate up to two hundred million dollars ($200,000,000) for housing financed by the California Housing Finance Agency under its Mixed-Income Program.

(v) (I) For the calendar years of 2024 to 2034, inclusive, of the amount available pursuant to this subparagraph, the lesser of 5 percent
of that amount or twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000) per calendar year shall be set aside for projects to provide farmworker housing, as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code, and administered consistent with the credits available pursuant to paragraph (4).

(II) Any credits pursuant to this clause that remain unallocated following the conclusion of a funding round shall roll over to consecutive subsequent funding rounds in that calendar year with the exception that any credits that remain unallocated after the final funding round in that calendar year shall be added back to the aggregate amount of credits that may be allocated pursuant to this subparagraph.

(III) For the 2035 calendar year, and every year thereafter, of the amount available pursuant to this subparagraph, a portion of the amount allocated shall be set aside for projects
to provide farmworker housing, as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code. The amount set aside shall be determined by the Legislature upon consideration of the comprehensive strategy, or most recent update thereof, provided by the Department of Housing and Community Development pursuant to subdivision (c) of Section 50408.5 of the Health and Safety Code.

(vi) (I) For any calendar year in which the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee has declared a competition for the award of tax-exempt bond authority for qualified residential rental projects, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate some or all of the credits allocated under this subparagraph, except for any credits allocated for housing financed by the California Housing Finance Agency under its Mixed-Income Program, for nonfederally subsidized buildings eligible for credits under Section 42 of the Internal
Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, and shall allocate the remainder of these credits for new buildings, as defined in Section 42(i)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to new buildings, that are federally subsidized and that can begin construction within a reasonable time, as determined by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee.

(II) For any calendar year in which the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee has not declared a competition for the award of tax-exempt bond authority for qualified residential rental projects, projects receiving an award of credits pursuant to this subparagraph shall begin construction within a reasonable time, as determined by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee.

(III) Notwithstanding subclauses (I) and (II), if credits available under this subparagraph remain unallocated after the final California Debt
Limit Allocation Committee round for qualified residential rental projects in a given calendar year, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate some or all of the remaining credits for nonfederally subsidized buildings eligible for credits under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit.

(2) The unused housing credit ceiling, if any, for the preceding calendar years.

(3) The amount of housing credit ceiling returned in the calendar year. For purposes of this paragraph, the amount of housing credit dollar amount returned in the calendar year equals the housing credit dollar amount previously allocated to any project that does not become a qualified low-income housing project within the period required by this section or to any project with respect to which an allocation is canceled by mutual consent of the California Tax Credit
Allocation Committee and the allocation recipient.

(4) Five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) per calendar year for projects to provide farmworker housing, as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code.

(5) The amount of any unallocated or returned credits under former Sections 17053.14, 23608.2, and 23608.3, as those sections read prior to January 1, 2009, until fully exhausted for projects to provide farmworker housing, as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code.

(6) No amount shall be provided for projects to provide farmworker housing used to comply with the requirement under Section 1188(c)(4) of Title 8 of the United States Code to furnish housing to H-2A
workers.

(h) The term “compliance period” as defined in Section 42(i)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to compliance period, is modified to mean, with respect to any building, the period of 30 consecutive taxable years beginning with the first taxable year of the credit period with respect thereto.

(i) (1) Section 42(j) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to recapture of credit, shall not be applicable and the provisions in paragraph (2) shall be substituted in its place.

(2) The requirements of this section shall be set forth in a regulatory agreement between the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and the housing sponsor, and the regulatory agreement shall be subordinated, when required, to any lien or encumbrance of any
banks or other institutional lenders to the project. The regulatory agreement entered into pursuant to subdivision (f) of Section 50199.14 of the Health and Safety Code, shall apply, provided that the agreement includes all of the following provisions:

(A) A term not less than the compliance period.

(B) A requirement that the agreement be recorded in the official records of the county in which the qualified low-income housing project is located.

(C) A provision stating which state and local agencies can enforce the regulatory agreement in the event the housing sponsor fails to satisfy any of the requirements of this section.

(D) A provision that the regulatory agreement shall be deemed a contract enforceable by tenants as third-party beneficiaries
thereto and that allows individuals, whether prospective, present, or former occupants of the building, who meet the income limitation applicable to the building, the right to enforce the regulatory agreement in any state court.

(E) A provision incorporating the requirements of Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, as modified by this section.

(F) A requirement that the housing sponsor notify the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee or its designee and the local agency that can enforce the regulatory agreement if there is a determination by the Internal Revenue Service that the project is not in compliance with Section 42(g) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to qualified low-income housing project.

(G) A requirement that the housing sponsor, as security for the
performance of the housing sponsor’s obligations under the regulatory agreement, assign the housing sponsor’s interest in rents that it receives from the project, provided that until there is a default under the regulatory agreement, the housing sponsor is entitled to collect and retain the rents.

(H) A provision that the remedies available in the event of a default under the regulatory agreement that is not cured within a reasonable cure period include, but are not limited to, allowing any of the parties designated to enforce the regulatory agreement to collect all rents with respect to the project; taking possession of the project and operating the project in accordance with the regulatory agreement until the enforcer determines the housing sponsor is in a position to operate the project in accordance with the regulatory agreement; applying to any court for specific performance; securing the appointment of a receiver to operate the project;
or any other relief as may be appropriate.

(j) (1) The committee shall allocate the housing credit on a regular basis consisting of two or more periods in each calendar year during which applications may be filed and considered. The committee shall establish application filing deadlines, the maximum percentage of federal and state low-income housing tax credit ceiling that may be allocated by the committee in that period, and the approximate date on which allocations shall be made. If the enactment of federal or state law, the adoption of rules or regulations, or other similar events prevent the use of two allocation periods, the committee may reduce the number of periods and adjust the filing deadlines, maximum percentage of credit allocated, and the allocation dates.

(2) The committee shall adopt a qualified allocation plan, as provided in Section 42(m)(1)
of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to plans for allocation of credit among projects. In adopting this plan, the committee shall comply with the provisions of Sections 42(m)(1)(B) and 42(m)(1)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to qualified allocation plan and relating to certain selection criteria must be used, respectively.

(3) Notwithstanding Section 42(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to responsibilities of housing credit agencies, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall allocate housing credits in accordance with the qualified allocation plan and regulations, which shall include the following provisions:

(A) All housing sponsors, as defined by paragraph (3) of subdivision (a), shall demonstrate at the time the application is filed with the committee that the project meets the following threshold requirements:

(i) The housing sponsor shall demonstrate there is a need and demand for low-income housing in the community or region for which it is proposed.

(ii) The project’s proposed financing, including tax credit proceeds, shall be sufficient to complete the project and that the proposed operating income shall be adequate to operate the project for the extended use period.

(iii) The project shall have enforceable financing commitments, either construction or permanent financing, for at least 50 percent of the total estimated financing of the project.

(iv) The housing sponsor shall have and maintain control of the site for the project.

(v) The housing sponsor shall demonstrate that the project
complies with all applicable local land use and zoning ordinances.

(vi) The housing sponsor shall demonstrate that the project development team has the experience and the financial capacity to ensure project completion and operation for the extended use period.

(vii) The housing sponsor shall demonstrate the amount of tax credit that is necessary for the financial feasibility of the project and its viability as a qualified low-income housing project throughout the extended use period, taking into account operating expenses, a supportable debt service, reserves, funds set aside for rental subsidies and required equity, and a development fee that does not exceed a specified percentage of the eligible basis of the project prior to inclusion of the development fee in the eligible basis, as determined by the committee.

(B) The committee shall give a preference to those projects satisfying all of the threshold requirements of subparagraph (A) if both of the following apply:

(i) The project serves the lowest income tenants at rents affordable to those tenants.

(ii) The project is obligated to serve qualified tenants for the longest period.

(C) In addition to the provisions of subparagraphs (A) and (B), the committee shall use the following criteria in allocating housing credits:

(i) Projects serving large families in which a substantial number, as defined by the committee, of all residential units are low-income units with three or more bedrooms.

(ii) Projects providing single-room occupancy
units serving very low income tenants.

(iii) Existing projects that are “at risk of conversion,” as defined by paragraph (5) of subdivision (c).

(iv) Projects for which a public agency provides direct or indirect long-term financial support for at least 15 percent of the total project development costs or projects for which the owner’s equity constitutes at least 30 percent of the total project development costs.

(v) Projects that provide tenant amenities not generally available to residents of low-income housing projects.

(D) Subparagraphs (B) and (C) shall not apply to projects receiving an allocation pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (g).

(4) For purposes of
allocating credits pursuant to this section, the committee shall not give preference to any project by virtue of the date of submission of its application except to break a tie when two or more of the projects have an equal rating.

(k) Section 42(l) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to certifications and other reports to secretary, shall be modified as follows:

The term “secretary” shall be replaced by the term “Franchise Tax Board.”

(l) In the case in which the credit allowed under this section exceeds the “tax,” the excess may be carried over to reduce the “tax” in the following year, and succeeding years if necessary, until the credit has been exhausted.

(m) The provisions of Section 11407(a) of Public Law 101-508, relating to the effective date of the
extension of the low-income housing credit, apply to calendar years after 1993.

(n) The provisions of Section 11407(c) of Public Law 101-508, relating to election to accelerate credit, shall not apply.

(o) (1) (A) For a project that receives a preliminary reservation under this section beginning on or after January 1, 2016, a taxpayer may elect, in the manner prescribed by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, to sell all or any portion of any credit allowed under this section to one or more unrelated parties for each taxable year in which the credit is allowed, subject to subparagraph (B). The taxpayer may make the election to sell pursuant to this subdivision at any time before the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee allocates a final credit amount for the project pursuant to this section, at which point the election
shall become irrevocable.

(B) A credit that a taxpayer elects to sell all or a portion of pursuant to this subdivision shall be sold for consideration that is not less than 80 percent of the amount of the credit.

(2) (A) The taxpayer that originally received the credit shall report to the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee within 10 days of the sale of the credit, in the form and manner specified by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, all required information regarding the purchase and sale of the credit, including the social security or other taxpayer identification number of the unrelated party or parties to whom the credit has been sold, the face amount of the credit sold, and the amount of consideration received by the taxpayer for the sale of the credit.

(B) The
California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall provide an annual listing to the Franchise Tax Board, in a form and manner agreed upon by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and the Franchise Tax Board, of the taxpayers that have sold or purchased a credit pursuant to this subdivision.

(3) A credit may be sold pursuant to this subdivision to more than one unrelated party.

(4) Notwithstanding any other law, the taxpayer that originally received the credit that is sold pursuant to paragraph (1) shall remain solely liable for all obligations and liabilities imposed on the taxpayer by this section with respect to the credit, none of which shall apply to a party to whom the credit has been sold or subsequently transferred. Parties that purchase credits pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be entitled to utilize the purchased credits in the same manner in which the taxpayer that
originally received the credit could utilize them.

(p) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may prescribe rules, guidelines, or procedures necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this section, including any guidelines regarding the allocation of the credit allowed under this section. Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code shall not apply to any rule, guideline, or procedure prescribed by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee pursuant to this section.

(q) This section shall remain in effect for as long as Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, remains in effect.

SEC. 13.
Section 17058 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is amended to read:

17058.
(a) (1) There shall be allowed as a credit against the “net tax,” defined in Section 17039, a state low-income housing tax credit in an amount equal to the amount determined in subdivision (c), computed in accordance with Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, as applicable for federal income tax purposes for the taxable year, except as otherwise provided in this section.

(2) “Taxpayer,” for purposes of this section, means the sole owner in the case of an individual, the partners in the case of a partnership, and the shareholders in the case of an “S” corporation.

(3) “Housing sponsor,” for purposes of this section, means the sole owner in the case of an individual, the partnership in the case of a partnership, and the “S” corporation in the case of an “S” corporation.

(b) (1) The amount of the credit allocated to any housing sponsor shall be authorized by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, or any successor thereof, based on a project’s need for the credit for economic feasibility in accordance with the requirements of this section.

(A) The low-income housing project shall be located in California and shall meet either of the following requirements:

(i) Except for projects to provide farmworker housing, as defined in subdivision (h) of
Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code, that are allocated credits solely under the set-aside described in subdivision (c) of Section 50199.20 of the Health and Safety Code, the project’s housing sponsor has been allocated by the
California Tax Credit Allocation Committee a credit for federal income tax purposes under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit.

(ii) It qualifies for a credit under Section 42(h)(4)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to special rule where minimum percent of buildings is financed with tax-exempt bonds subject to volume cap.

(B) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall not require fees for the credit under this section in addition to those fees required for applications for the tax credit pursuant to Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit. The committee may require a fee if the application for the credit under this section is submitted in a calendar year after the year
the application is submitted for the federal tax credit.

(C) (i) For a project that receives a preliminary reservation of the state low-income housing tax credit, allowed pursuant to subdivision (a), on or after January 1, 2009, the credit shall be allocated to the partners of a partnership owning the project in accordance with the partnership agreement, regardless of how the federal low-income housing tax credit with respect to the project is allocated to the partners, or whether the allocation of the credit under the terms of the agreement has substantial economic effect, within the meaning of Section 704(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to determination of distributive share.

(ii) To the extent the allocation of the credit to a partner under this
section lacks substantial economic effect, any loss or deduction otherwise allowable under this part that is attributable to the sale or other disposition of that partner’s partnership interest made prior to the expiration of the federal credit shall not be allowed in the taxable year in which the sale or other disposition occurs, but shall instead be deferred until and treated as if it occurred in the first taxable year immediately following the taxable year in which the federal credit period expires for the project described in clause (i).

(iii) This subparagraph shall not apply to a project that receives a preliminary reservation of state low-income housing tax credits under the set-aside described in subdivision (c) of Section 50199.20 of the Health and Safety Code unless the project also receives a preliminary reservation of federal low-income
housing tax credits.

(2) (A) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall certify to the housing sponsor the amount of tax credit under this section allocated to the housing sponsor for each credit period.

(B) In the case of a partnership or an “S” corporation, the housing sponsor shall provide a copy of the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee certification to the taxpayer.

(C) (i) A taxpayer shall be eligible to claim the credit commencing in the taxable year the building is placed in service and the federal credit period commences, notwithstanding that the certification pursuant to subparagraph (A) has not been issued by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee,
provided that the housing sponsor has filed a taxpayer certification with the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and delivered a copy to the taxpayer. The amount of credit claimed by the taxpayer shall not exceed the pro rata share with respect to the amount of credit that the taxpayer purchased or is allocated per the partnership agreement, as applicable, of the lesser of either of the following:

(I) The applicable percentages for each of the four credit years, as specified in subdivision (c), multiplied by the qualified basis of the building set forth in the preliminary reservation.

(II) The amount of credit the project is eligible for as stated in the taxpayer certification.

(ii) The California Tax Credit
Allocation Committee may, but is not required to, review the taxpayer certification and other information provided by the housing sponsor to confirm both of the following:

(I) The calculations set forth in the taxpayer certification.

(II) The amount of credits allocated to the project is consistent with applicable California Tax Credit Allocation Committee rules and regulations for the purposes of making the certification required pursuant to subparagraph (A).

(iii) If the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee issues a certification pursuant to subparagraph (A) that is inconsistent with the taxpayer certification upon which a credit has been claimed, the taxpayer shall amend any previously filed tax returns to
reflect the credit amount certified by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee pursuant to subparagraph (A).

(iv) For purposes of this subparagraph, “taxpayer certification” means a certified statement from the certified public accountant of the housing sponsor. The taxpayer certification shall contain the amount of the credit the project is eligible for, the taxable year the building is placed in service, and the taxable year in which the federal credit period for the building has commenced.

(v) The taxpayer shall, upon request, provide a copy of the taxpayer certification pursuant to clause (iv) or the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee’s certification pursuant to subparagraph (A), as applicable, to the Franchise Tax Board.

(vi) In the case of a failure to provide a copy of the taxpayer certification pursuant to clause (iv) or the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee’s certification pursuant to subparagraph (A), if the Franchise Tax Board so requires, no credit under this section shall be allowed for that taxable year until a copy of that certification is provided.

(vii) The changes made to this subparagraph by the act adding this clause shall apply for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2023.

(D) All elections made by the taxpayer pursuant to Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, apply to this section.

(E) (i) Except as described in clause (ii) or
(iii), for buildings located in designated difficult development areas (DDAs) or qualified census tracts (QCTs), as defined in Section 42(d)(5)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to increase in credit for buildings in high-cost areas, credits may be allocated under this section in the amounts prescribed in subdivision (c), provided that the amount of credit allocated under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, is computed on 100 percent of the qualified basis of the building.

(ii) Notwithstanding clause (i), the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate the credit for buildings designated under Section 42(d)(5)(B)(v) of the Internal Revenue Code that are restricted to having 50 percent of the building’s occupants be special needs households, as defined in the California Code
of Regulations by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, provided that the credit allowed under this section shall not exceed 30 percent of the eligible basis of the building.

(iii) On and after January 1, 2018, notwithstanding clause (i), the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate the credit pursuant to paragraph (7) of subdivision (c) or subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (g), even if the taxpayer receives federal credits, pursuant to Section 42(d)(5)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to increase in credit for buildings in high-cost areas.

(F) (i) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate a credit under this section in exchange for a credit allocated pursuant to Section 42(d)(5)(B) of the
Internal Revenue Code, relating to increase in credit for buildings in high-cost areas, in amounts up to 30 percent of the eligible basis of a building if the credits allowed under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, are reduced by an equivalent amount.

(ii) An equivalent amount shall be determined by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee based upon the relative amount required to produce an equivalent state tax credit to the taxpayer.

(c) Section 42(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to applicable percentage: 70 percent present value credit for certain new buildings; 30 percent present value credit for certain other buildings, shall be modified as follows:

(1) In the case of any qualified low-income building placed in service by the housing sponsor during 1987, the term “applicable percentage” means 9 percent for each of the first three years and 3 percent for the fourth year for new buildings (whether or not the building is federally subsidized) and for existing buildings.

(2) In the case of any qualified low-income building that receives an allocation after 1989 and is a new building not federally subsidized, the term “applicable percentage” means for each of the first three years, 9 percent of the qualified basis of the building, and for the fourth year, 3 percent of the qualified basis of the building.

(3) In the case of any qualified low-income building that is a new building that is federally subsidized and receiving an
allocation pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (g), the term “applicable percentage” means for each of the first three years, 9 percent of the qualified basis of the building, and for the fourth year, 3 percent of the qualified basis of the building.

(4) In the case of any qualified low-income building that receives an allocation after 1989 pursuant to subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (g) and that is a new building that is federally subsidized or that is an existing building that is “at risk of conversion,” the term “applicable percentage” means for each of the first three years, 4 percent of the qualified basis of the building, and for the fourth year, 1 percent of the qualified basis of the building.

(5) In the case of any
qualified low-income building that meets all of the requirements of subparagraphs (A) to (D), inclusive, the term “applicable percentage” means 30 percent for each of the first three years and 5 percent for the fourth year. A qualified low-income building receiving an allocation under this paragraph is ineligible to also receive an allocation under paragraph (3).

(A) The qualified low-income building is at least 15 years old.

(B) The qualified low-income building is either:

(i) Serving households of very low income or extremely low income such that the average maximum household income as restricted, pursuant to an existing regulatory agreement with a federal, state, county, local, or other governmental agency, is not more than
45 percent of the area median gross income, as determined under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, adjusted by household size, and a tax credit regulatory agreement is entered into for a period of not less than 55 years restricting the average targeted household income to no more than 45 percent of the area median income.

(ii) Financed under Section 514 or 521 of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. Sec. 1485).

(C) The qualified low-income building would have insufficient credits under paragraphs (2) and (3) to complete substantial rehabilitation due to a low appraised value.

(D) The qualified low-income building will complete the substantial rehabilitation in connection with the
credit allocation herein.

(6) For purposes of this section, the term “at risk of conversion,” with respect to an existing property, means a property that satisfies all of the following criteria:

(A) The property is a multifamily rental housing development in which at least 50 percent of the units receive governmental assistance pursuant to any of the following:

(i) New construction, substantial rehabilitation, moderate rehabilitation, property disposition, and loan management set-aside programs, or any other program providing project-based assistance pursuant to Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, Section 1437f of Title 42 of the United States Code, as amended.

(ii) The Below-Market-Interest-Rate Program pursuant to Section 221(d)(3) of the National Housing Act, Sections 1715l(d)(3) and (5) of Title 12 of the United States Code.

(iii) Section 236 of the National Housing Act, Section 1715z-1 of Title 12 of the United States Code.

(iv) Programs for rent supplement assistance pursuant to Section 101 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965, Section 1701s of Title 12 of the United States Code, as amended.

(v) Programs under Sections 514, 515, 516, 533, and 538 of the Housing Act of 1949 (Public Law 81-171), as amended.

(vi) The low-income housing credit program set forth in Section 42 of the Internal Revenue
Code, relating to low-income housing credit, this section, and Sections 12206 and 23610.5.

(vii) Programs for loans or grants administered by the Department of Housing and Community Development.

(viii) Section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. Sec. 1701q), as amended.

(ix) Section 142(d) of the Internal Revenue Code or its predecessors.

(x) Section 147 of the Internal Revenue Code, as enacted by the Tax Reform Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-514), or as subsequently amended, including as amended by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-97) and all amendments enacted prior to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-97).

(xi) Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended.

(xii) Title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, as amended.

(xiii) Titles IV and V of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act of 1987, as amended, including the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Supportive Housing Program, Shelter Plus Care Program, and surplus federal property disposition program.

(xiv) The following assistance provided by counties and cities in exchange for restrictions on the maximum rents that may be charged for units within a multifamily rental housing development and on the maximum tenant income as a condition of
eligibility for occupancy of the unit subject to the rent restriction, as reflected by a recorded agreement with a county or city:

(I) Loans or grants provided using tax increment financing pursuant to the Community Redevelopment Law (Part 1 (commencing with Section 33000) of Division 24 of the Health and Safety Code).

(II) Local housing trust funds, as referred to in Section 50843 of the Health and Safety Code.

(III) The sale or lease of public property at or below market rates.

(IV) The granting of density bonuses, or concessions or incentives, including fee waivers, parking variances, or amendments to general plans, zoning, or redevelopment project
area plans, pursuant to Chapter 4.3 (commencing with Section 65915) of Division 1 of Title 7 of the Government Code.

(B) As used in subparagraph (A), “government assistance” shall not include the use of tenant-based housing choice vouchers under subsection (o) of Section 1437f of Title 42 of the United States Code, excluding paragraph (13) relating to project-based assistance. Restrictions shall not include any rent control or rent stabilization ordinance imposed by a county or city.

(C) If the development is subject to restrictions on rent and income levels, 50 percent of the units are also restricted to initial occupancy by lower income households, as defined in Section 50079.5 of the Health and Safety Code.

(D) The restrictions on rent and income levels, excluding any restrictions recorded pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (e) of Section 65863.11 or Section 65863.13 of the Government Code or in connection with interim or acquisition financing, will terminate or the federally insured mortgage or rent subsidy contract on the property is eligible for prepayment or termination any time within five years before or after the date of application to the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee.

(E) The entity acquiring the property enters into a regulatory agreement that requires the property to be operated in accordance with the requirements of Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code and any further requirements added by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee to implement the low-income housing tax credit established by
Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. Sec. 42), this section, and Sections 12206 and 23610.5 pursuant to Chapter 3.6 (commencing with Section 50199.4) of Part 1 of Division 31 of the Health and Safety Code.

(F) The property satisfies the requirements of Section 42(e) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to rehabilitation expenditures treated as separate new building, except that the provisions of Section 42(e)(3)(A)(ii)(I) shall not apply.

(7) On and after January 1, 2018, in the case of any qualified low-income building that is (A) farmworker housing, as defined by paragraph (2) of subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code, and (B) is federally subsidized, the term “applicable percentage” means for each of the first three years, 20 percent
of the qualified basis of the building, and for the fourth year, 15 percent of the qualified basis of the building.

(d) The term “qualified low-income housing project” as defined in Section 42(c)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to qualified low-income building, is modified by adding the following requirements:

(1) The taxpayer shall be entitled to receive a cash distribution from the operations of the project, after funding required reserves, that, at the election of the taxpayer, is equal to:

(A) An amount not to exceed 8 percent of the lesser of:

(i) The owner equity, which shall include the amount of the capital contributions actually paid to the housing
sponsor and shall not include any amounts until they are paid on an investor note.

(ii) Twenty percent of the adjusted basis of the building as of the close of the first taxable year of the credit period.

(B) The amount of the cashflow from those units in the building that are not low-income units. For purposes of computing cashflow under this subparagraph, operating costs shall be allocated to the low-income units using the “floor space fraction,” as defined in Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit.

(C) Any amount allowed to be distributed under subparagraph (A) that is not available for distribution during the first 5 years of the compliance period may be accumulated and
distributed any time during the first 15 years of the compliance period but not thereafter.

(2) The limitation on return shall apply in the aggregate to the partners if the housing sponsor is a partnership and in the aggregate to the shareholders if the housing sponsor is an “S” corporation.

(3) The housing sponsor shall apply any cash available for distribution in excess of the amount eligible to be distributed under paragraph (1) to reduce the rent on rent-restricted units or to increase the number of rent-restricted units subject to the tests of Section 42(g)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to in general.

(e) The provisions of Section 42(f) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to definition and
special rules relating to credit period, shall be modified as follows:

(1) The term “credit period” as defined in Section 42(f)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to credit period defined, is modified by substituting “four taxable years” for “10 taxable years.”

(2) The special rule for the first taxable year of the credit period under Section 42(f)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to special rules for 1st year of credit period, shall not apply to the tax credit under this section.

(3) Section 42(f)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to determination of applicable percentage with respect to increases in qualified basis after 1st year of credit period, is modified to read:

If, as of the close of any taxable year in the compliance period, after the first year of the credit period, the qualified basis of any building exceeds the qualified basis of that building as of the close of the first year of the credit period, the housing sponsor, to the extent of its tax credit allocation, shall be eligible for a credit on the excess in an amount equal to the applicable percentage determined pursuant to subdivision (c) for the four-year period beginning with the taxable year in which the increase in qualified basis occurs.

(f) The provisions of Section 42(h) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to limitation on aggregate credit allowable with respect to projects located in a state, shall be modified as follows:

(1) Section 42(h)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to allocated credit amount to apply to all taxable years ending during or after credit allocation year, does not apply and instead the following provisions apply:

The total amount for the four-year credit period of the housing credit dollars allocated in a calendar year to any building shall reduce the aggregate housing credit dollar amount of the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee for the calendar year in which the allocation is made.

(2) Paragraphs (3), (4), (5), (6)(E)(i)(II), (6)(F), (6)(G), (6)(I), (7), and (8) of Section 42(h) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to limitation on aggregate credit allowable with respect to projects located in a state, do not apply to this section.

(g) The aggregate housing credit dollar amount that may be allocated annually by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee pursuant to this section, Section 12206, and Section 23610.5 shall be an amount equal to the sum of all the following:

(1) (A) Seventy million dollars ($70,000,000) for the 2001 calendar year, and, for the 2002 calendar year and each calendar year thereafter, seventy million dollars ($70,000,000) increased by the percentage, if any, by which the Consumer Price Index for the preceding calendar year exceeds the Consumer Price Index for the 2001 calendar year. For the purposes of this paragraph, the term “Consumer Price Index” means the last Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers published by the United States Department of Labor.

(B) Five hundred million dollars ($500,000,000) for the 2020 calendar year, and up to five hundred million dollars ($500,000,000) for the 2021 calendar year and every year thereafter. Allocations shall only be available pursuant to this subparagraph in the 2021 calendar year and thereafter if the annual Budget Act, or if any bill providing for appropriations related to the Budget Act, specifies an amount to be available for allocation in that calendar year by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, and after the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee have adopted regulations, rules, or guidelines to align the programs of both committees with the objective of increasing production and containing costs as described in clause (iii). The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee
shall accept applications for the 2021 calendar year not sooner than 30 days after these regulations, rules, or guidelines have been adopted. The California Debt Limit Allocation Committee shall not accept applications for the 2021 calendar year for bond allocations for an eligible project under this section prior to issuing, reviewing, and publishing a new tax-exempt private activity bond demand survey. A housing sponsor receiving a nonfederally subsidized allocation under subdivision (c) shall not be eligible for receipt of the housing credit allocated from the increased amount under this subparagraph. Except as provided in clause (vi), a housing sponsor receiving a nonfederally subsidized allocation under subdivision (c) shall remain eligible for receipt of the housing credit allocated from the credit ceiling amount under subparagraph (A).

(i) Eligible projects for allocations under this subparagraph include any new building, as defined in Section 42(i)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to newly constructed buildings, and the regulations promulgated thereunder, excluding rehabilitation expenditures under Section 42(e) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to rehabilitation expenditures treated as separate new building, and is federally subsidized. Eligible projects for allocations under this subparagraph also include any retrofitting and repurposing of existing nonresidential structures, including, but not limited to, hotels and motels, that were converted to residential use within the previous five years from the date of the application.

(ii) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, for allocations pursuant to this subparagraph for the 2020
calendar year, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall consider projects located throughout the state and shall allocate housing credits, subject to the minimum federal requirements as set forth in Sections 42 and 142 of the Internal Revenue Code, the minimum requirements set forth in Sections 5033 and 5190 of the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee regulations, and the minimum set forth in Section 10326 of the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee regulations, for projects that can begin construction within 180 days from award, subject to availability of funds.

(iii) (I) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, for allocations pursuant to this subparagraph for the 2021 calendar year and thereafter, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and the California Debt Limit
Allocation Committee shall develop and prescribe regulations, rules, or guidelines necessary to implement a new allocation methodology that is aimed at increasing production and containing costs, which would include a scoring system that maximizes the efficient use of public subsidy and benefit created through the private activity bond and low-income housing tax credit programs. The factors for determining the efficient use of public subsidy and benefit shall include, but not be limited to, all of the following:

(ia) The number and size of units developed including local incentives provided to increase density.

(ib) The proximity to amenities, jobs, and public transportation.

(ic) The location of the development.

(id) The delivery of housing affordable to very low and extremely low income households by the development.

(II) The efficient use of public subsidy and benefit criteria specified in this clause shall take into account the total state subsidy provided and prioritize cost containment and increased unit production. These regulations, rules, or guidelines developed pursuant to this subparagraph shall also consider updated definitions for at-risk preservation and new construction.

(III) For bond allocations for the 2021 calendar year to projects eligible for an allocation under this subparagraph, the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee may adopt emergency regulations.

(IV) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall consider amending the regulations establishing a scoring system, as required by this clause, to also grant, for farmworker housing as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code, maximum points to farmworker housing projects under the housing needs category, and an initial five points in the category for site amenities beyond those required as additional thresholds.

(iv) Of the amount available pursuant to this subparagraph, and notwithstanding any other requirement of this section, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate up to two hundred million dollars ($200,000,000) for housing financed by the California Housing Finance Agency under its Mixed-Income Program.

(v) (I) For the calendar years of 2024 to 2034, inclusive, of the amount available pursuant to this subparagraph, the lesser of 5 percent of that amount or twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000) per calendar year shall be set aside for projects to provide farmworker housing, as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code, and administered consistent with the credits available pursuant to paragraph (4).

(II) Any credits pursuant to this clause that remain unallocated following the conclusion of a funding round shall roll over to consecutive subsequent funding rounds in that calendar year with the exception that any credits that remain unallocated after the final funding round in that calendar year shall be added back to the aggregate amount of credits that may be allocated
pursuant to this subparagraph.

(III) For the 2035 calendar year, and every year thereafter, of the amount available pursuant to this subparagraph, a portion of the amount allocated shall be set aside for projects to provide farmworker housing, as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code. The amount set aside shall be determined by the Legislature upon consideration of the comprehensive strategy, or most recent update thereof, provided by the Department of Housing and Community Development pursuant to subdivision (c) of Section 50408.5 of the Health and Safety Code.

(vi) (I) For any calendar year in which the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee has declared a competition for the award of tax-exempt bond authority
for qualified residential rental projects, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate some or all of the credits allocated under this subparagraph, except for any credits allocated for housing financed by the California Housing Finance Agency under its Mixed-Income Program, for nonfederally subsidized buildings eligible for credits under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, and shall allocate the remainder of these credits for new buildings, as defined in Section 42(i)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to new buildings, that are federally subsidized and that can begin construction within a
reasonable time, as determined by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee.

(II) For any calendar year in which the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee has not declared a competition for the award of tax-exempt bond authority for qualified residential rental projects, projects receiving an award of credits pursuant to this subparagraph shall begin construction within a reasonable time, as determined by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee.

(III) Notwithstanding subclauses (I) and (II), if credits available under this subparagraph remain unallocated after the final California Debt Limit Allocation Committee round for qualified residential rental projects in a given calendar year, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate some or
all of the remaining credits for nonfederally subsidized buildings eligible for credits under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit.

(2) The unused housing credit ceiling, if any, for the preceding calendar years.

(3) The amount of housing credit ceiling returned in the calendar year. For purposes of this paragraph, the amount of housing credit dollar amount returned in the calendar year equals the housing credit dollar amount previously allocated to any project that does not become a qualified low-income housing project within the period required by this section or to any project with respect to which an allocation is canceled by mutual consent of the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and the allocation recipient.

(4) Five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) per calendar year for projects to provide farmworker housing, as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code.

(5) The amount of any unallocated or returned credits under former Sections 17053.14, 23608.2, and 23608.3, as those sections read prior to January 1, 2009, until fully exhausted for projects to provide farmworker housing, as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code.

(h) The term “compliance period” as defined in Section 42(i)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to compliance period, is modified to mean, with respect to any building, the period of 30 consecutive taxable years beginning with the first
taxable year of the credit period with respect thereto.

(i) Section 42(j) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to recapture of credit, shall not be applicable and the following requirements of this section shall be set forth in a regulatory agreement between the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and the housing sponsor, and the regulatory agreement shall be subordinated, when required, to any lien or encumbrance of any banks or other institutional lenders to the project. The regulatory agreement entered into pursuant to subdivision (f) of Section 50199.14 of the Health and Safety Code shall apply, provided that the agreement includes all of the following provisions:

(1) A term not less than the compliance period.

(2) A requirement that the agreement be recorded in the official records of the county in which the qualified low-income housing project is located.

(3) A provision stating which state and local agencies can enforce the regulatory agreement in the event the housing sponsor fails to satisfy any of the requirements of this section.

(4) A provision that the regulatory agreement shall be deemed a contract enforceable by tenants as third-party beneficiaries thereto and that allows individuals, whether prospective, present, or former occupants of the building, who meet the income limitation applicable to the building, the right to enforce the regulatory agreement in any state court.

(5) A provision incorporating the
requirements of Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, as modified by this section.

(6) A requirement that the housing sponsor notify the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee or its designee if there is a determination by the Internal Revenue Service that the project is not in compliance with Section 42(g) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to qualified low-income housing project.

(7) A requirement that the housing sponsor, as security for the performance of the housing sponsor’s obligations under the regulatory agreement, assign the housing sponsor’s interest in rents that it receives from the project, provided that until there is a default under the regulatory agreement, the housing sponsor is entitled to collect and retain
the rents.

(8) A provision that the remedies available in the event of a default under the regulatory agreement that is not cured within a reasonable cure period include, but are not limited to, allowing any of the parties designated to enforce the regulatory agreement to collect all rents with respect to the project; taking possession of the project and operating the project in accordance with the regulatory agreement until the enforcer determines the housing sponsor is in a position to operate the project in accordance with the regulatory agreement; applying to any court for specific performance; securing the appointment of a receiver to operate the project; or any other relief as may be appropriate.

(j) (1) The committee shall allocate the housing credit on a regular
basis consisting of two or more periods in each calendar year during which applications may be filed and considered. The committee shall establish application filing deadlines, the maximum percentage of federal and state low-income housing tax credit ceiling that may be allocated by the committee in that period, and the approximate date on which allocations shall be made. If the enactment of federal or state law, the adoption of rules or regulations, or other similar events prevent the use of two allocation periods, the committee may reduce the number of periods and adjust the filing deadlines, maximum percentage of credit allocated, and the allocation dates.

(2) The committee shall adopt a qualified allocation plan, as provided in Section 42(m)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to plans for allocation of credit among projects. In
adopting this plan, the committee shall comply with the provisions of Sections 42(m)(1)(B) and 42(m)(1)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to qualified allocation plan and relating to certain selection criteria must be used, respectively.

(3) Notwithstanding Section 42(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to responsibilities of housing credit agencies, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall allocate housing credits in accordance with the qualified allocation plan and regulations, which shall include the following provisions:

(A) All housing sponsors, as defined by paragraph (3) of subdivision (a), shall demonstrate at the time the application is filed with the committee that the project meets the following threshold requirements:

(i) The housing sponsor shall demonstrate that there is a need and demand for low-income housing in the community or region for which it is proposed.

(ii) The project’s proposed financing, including tax credit proceeds, shall be sufficient to complete the project and that the proposed operating income shall be adequate to operate the project for the extended use period.

(iii) The project shall have enforceable financing commitments, either construction or permanent financing, for at least 50 percent of the total estimated financing of the project.

(iv) The housing sponsor shall have and maintain control of the site for the project.

(v) The housing sponsor shall demonstrate that the project complies with all applicable local land use and zoning ordinances.

(vi) The housing sponsor shall demonstrate that the project development team has the experience and the financial capacity to ensure project completion and operation for the extended use period.

(vii) The housing sponsor shall demonstrate the amount of tax credit that is necessary for the financial feasibility of the project and its viability as a qualified low-income housing project throughout the extended use period, taking into account operating expenses, a supportable debt service, reserves, funds set aside for rental subsidies and required equity, and a development fee that does not
exceed a specified percentage of the eligible basis of the project prior to inclusion of the development fee in the eligible basis, as determined by the committee.

(B) The committee shall give a preference to those projects satisfying all of the threshold requirements of subparagraph (A) if both of the following apply:

(i) The project serves the lowest income tenants at rents affordable to those tenants.

(ii) The project is obligated to serve qualified tenants for the longest period.

(C) In addition to the provisions of subparagraphs (A) and (B), the committee shall use the following criteria in allocating housing credits:

(i) Projects serving large families in which a substantial number, as defined by the committee, of all residential units are low-income units with three or more bedrooms.

(ii) Projects providing single-room occupancy units serving very low income tenants.

(iii) Existing projects that are “at risk of conversion,” as defined by paragraph (6) of subdivision (c).

(iv) Projects for which a public agency provides direct or indirect long-term financial support for at least 15 percent of the total project development costs or projects for which the owner’s equity constitutes at least 30 percent of the total project development costs.

(v) Projects that provide tenant amenities not generally available to residents of low-income housing projects.

(D) Subparagraphs (B) and (C) shall not apply to projects receiving an allocation pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (g).

(4) For purposes of allocating credits pursuant to this section, the committee shall not give preference to any project by virtue of the date of submission of its application.

(k) Section 42(l) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to certifications and other reports to secretary, shall be modified as follows:

The term “secretary” shall be replaced by
the term “Franchise Tax Board.”

(l) In the case in which the credit allowed under this section exceeds the “net tax,” the excess may be carried over to reduce the “net tax” in the following year, and succeeding years, if necessary, until the credit has been exhausted.

(m) A project that received an allocation of a 1989 federal housing credit dollar amount shall be eligible to receive an allocation of a 1990 state housing credit dollar amount, subject to all of the following conditions:

(1) The project was not placed in service prior to 1990.

(2) To the extent the amendments made to this section by the Statutes of 1990 conflict with any provisions existing
in this section prior to those amendments, the prior provisions of law shall prevail.

(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (2), a project applying for an allocation under this subdivision shall be subject to the requirements of paragraph (3) of subdivision (j).

(n) The credit period with respect to an allocation of credit in 1989 by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee of which any amount is attributable to unallocated credit from 1987 or 1988 shall not begin until after December 31, 1989.

(o) The provisions of Section 11407(a) of Public Law 101-508, relating to the effective date of the extension of the low-income housing credit, apply to calendar years after 1989.

(p) The provisions of Section 11407(c) of Public Law 101-508, relating to election to accelerate credit, shall not apply.

(q) (1) (A) For a project that receives a preliminary reservation under this section beginning on or after January 1, 2016, a taxpayer may elect, in the manner prescribed by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, to sell all or any portion of any credit allowed, subject to subparagraph (B). The taxpayer may make the election to sell pursuant to this subdivision at any time before the
California Tax Credit Allocation Committee allocates a final credit amount for the project pursuant to this section, at which point the election shall become irrevocable.

(B) A credit that a taxpayer elects to sell all or a portion of pursuant to this subdivision shall be sold for consideration that is not less than 80 percent of the amount of the credit.

(2) (A) The taxpayer that originally received the credit shall report to the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee within 10 days of the sale of the credit, in the form and manner specified by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, all required information regarding the purchase and sale of the credit, including the social security or other taxpayer identification number of the unrelated
party or parties to whom the credit has been sold, the face amount of the credit sold, and the amount of consideration received by the taxpayer for the sale of the credit.

(B) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall provide an annual listing to the Franchise Tax Board, in a form and manner agreed upon by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and the Franchise Tax Board, of the taxpayers that have sold or purchased a credit pursuant to this subdivision.

(3) A credit may be sold pursuant to this subdivision to more than one unrelated party.

(4) Notwithstanding any other law, the taxpayer that originally received the credit that is sold pursuant to paragraph (1) shall remain solely liable for all
obligations and liabilities imposed on the taxpayer by this section with respect to the credit, none of which shall apply to a party to whom the credit has been sold or subsequently transferred. Parties that purchase credits pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be entitled to utilize the purchased credits in the same manner in which the taxpayer that originally received the credit could utilize them.

(5) A taxpayer shall not sell a credit allowed by this section if the taxpayer was allowed the credit on any tax return of the taxpayer.

(r) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may prescribe rules, guidelines, or procedures necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this section, including any guidelines regarding the allocation of the credit allowed under this
section. Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code shall not apply to any rule, guideline, or procedure prescribed by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee pursuant to this section.

(s) The amendments to this section made by Chapter 1222 of the Statutes of 1993 apply only to taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 1994.

(t) This section shall remain in effect on and after December 1, 1990, for as long as Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, remains in effect. Any unused credit may continue to be carried forward, as provided in subdivision (l), until the credit has been exhausted.

SEC. 13.5.
Section 17058 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is amended to read:

17058.
(a) (1) There shall be allowed as a credit against the “net tax,” defined in Section 17039, a state low-income housing tax credit in an amount equal to the amount determined in subdivision (c), computed in accordance with Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, as applicable for federal income tax purposes for the taxable year, except as otherwise provided in this section.

(2) “Taxpayer,” for purposes of this section, means the sole owner in the case of an individual, the partners in the case of a partnership, and the shareholders in the case of an “S” corporation.

(3) “Housing sponsor,” for purposes of this section, means the sole owner in the case of an individual, the partnership in the case of a partnership, and the “S” corporation in the case of an “S” corporation.

(b) (1) The amount of the credit allocated to any housing sponsor shall be authorized by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, or any successor thereof, based on a project’s need for the credit for economic feasibility in accordance with the requirements of this section.

(A) The low-income housing project shall be located in California and shall meet either of the following requirements:

(i) Except for projects to provide farmworker housing, as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code,
that are allocated credits solely under the set-aside described in subdivision (c) of Section 50199.20 of the Health and Safety Code, the project’s housing sponsor has been allocated by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee a credit for federal income tax purposes under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit.

(ii) It qualifies for a credit under Section 42(h)(4)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to special rule where minimum percent of
buildings is financed with tax-exempt bonds subject to volume cap.

(B) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall not require fees for the credit under this section in addition to those fees required for applications for the tax credit pursuant to Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit. The committee may require a fee if the application for the credit under this section is submitted in a calendar year after the year the application is submitted for the federal tax credit.

(C) (i) For a project that receives a preliminary reservation of the state low-income housing tax credit, allowed pursuant to subdivision (a), on or after January 1, 2009, the credit shall be allocated to the partners of a partnership owning the project in accordance with the partnership agreement,
regardless of how the federal low-income housing tax credit with respect to the project is allocated to the partners, or whether the allocation of the credit under the terms of the agreement has substantial economic effect, within the meaning of Section 704(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to determination of distributive share.

(ii) To the extent the allocation of the credit to a partner under this section lacks substantial economic effect, any loss or deduction otherwise allowable under this part that is attributable to the sale or other disposition of that partner’s partnership interest made prior to the expiration of the federal credit shall not be allowed in the taxable year in which the sale or other disposition occurs, but shall instead be deferred until and treated as if it occurred in the first taxable year immediately following the taxable year in which the federal credit period expires for the project described in clause
(i).

(iii) This subparagraph shall not apply to a project that receives a preliminary reservation of state low-income housing tax credits under the set-aside described in subdivision (c) of Section 50199.20 of the Health and Safety Code unless the project also receives a preliminary reservation of federal low-income housing tax credits.

(2) (A) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall certify to the housing sponsor the amount of tax credit under this section allocated to the housing sponsor for each credit period.

(B) In the case of a partnership or an “S” corporation, the housing sponsor shall provide a copy of the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee certification to the taxpayer.

(C) (i) A
taxpayer shall be eligible to claim the credit commencing in the taxable year the building is placed in service and the federal credit period commences, notwithstanding that the certification pursuant to subparagraph (A) has not been issued by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, provided that the housing sponsor has filed a taxpayer certification with the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and delivered a copy to the taxpayer. The amount of credit claimed by the taxpayer shall not exceed the pro rata share with respect to the amount of credit that the taxpayer purchased or is allocated per the partnership agreement, as applicable, of the lesser of either of the following:

(I) The applicable percentages for each of the four credit years, as specified in subdivision (c), multiplied by the qualified basis of the building set forth in the preliminary reservation.

(II) The amount of credit the project is eligible for as stated in the taxpayer certification.

(ii) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may, but is not required to, review the taxpayer certification and other information provided by the housing sponsor to confirm both of the following:

(I) The calculations set forth in the taxpayer certification.

(II) The amount of credits allocated to the project is consistent with applicable California Tax Credit Allocation Committee rules and regulations for the purposes of making the certification required pursuant to subparagraph (A).

(iii) If the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee issues a certification pursuant to subparagraph (A) that is inconsistent with the taxpayer certification
upon which a credit has been claimed, the taxpayer shall amend any previously filed tax returns to reflect the credit amount certified by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee pursuant to subparagraph (A).

(iv) For purposes of this subparagraph, “taxpayer certification” means a certified statement from the certified public accountant of the housing sponsor. The taxpayer certification shall contain the amount of the credit the project is eligible for, the taxable year the building is placed in service, and the taxable year in which the federal credit period for the building has commenced.

(v) The taxpayer shall, upon request, provide a copy of the taxpayer certification pursuant to clause (iv) or the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee’s certification pursuant to subparagraph (A), as applicable, to the Franchise Tax Board.

(vi) In the case of a failure to provide a copy of the taxpayer certification pursuant to clause (iv) or the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee’s certification pursuant to subparagraph (A), if the Franchise Tax Board so requires, no credit under this section shall be allowed for that taxable year until a copy of that certification is provided.

(vii) The changes made to this subparagraph by the act adding this clause shall apply for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2023.

(D) All elections made by the taxpayer pursuant to Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, apply to this section.

(E) (i) Except as described in clause (ii) or (iii), for buildings located in designated
difficult development areas (DDAs) or qualified census tracts (QCTs), as defined in Section 42(d)(5)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to increase in credit for buildings in high-cost areas, credits may be allocated under this section in the amounts prescribed in subdivision (c), provided that the amount of credit allocated under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, is computed on 100 percent of the qualified basis of the building.

(ii) Notwithstanding clause (i), the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate the credit for buildings designated under Section 42(d)(5)(B)(v) of the Internal Revenue Code that are restricted to having 50 percent of the building’s occupants be special needs households, as defined in the California Code of Regulations by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, provided that the credit allowed under this section shall not exceed 30 percent of the eligible basis of the building.

(iii) On and after January 1, 2018, notwithstanding clause (i), the California Tax Credit
Allocation Committee may allocate the credit pursuant to paragraph (7) of subdivision (c) or subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (g), even if the taxpayer receives federal credits, pursuant to Section 42(d)(5)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to increase in credit for buildings in high-cost areas.

(F) (i) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate a credit under this section in exchange for a credit allocated pursuant to Section 42(d)(5)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to increase in credit for buildings in high-cost areas, in amounts up to 30 percent of the eligible basis of a building if the credits allowed under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, are reduced by an equivalent amount.

(ii) An equivalent amount shall be determined by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee based upon the relative amount required to produce an equivalent state tax credit to the taxpayer.

(c) Section 42(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to applicable percentage: 70 percent present value credit for certain new buildings; 30 percent present value credit for certain other buildings, shall be modified as follows:

(1) In the case of any qualified low-income building placed in service by the housing sponsor during 1987, the term “applicable percentage” means 9 percent for each of the first three years and 3 percent for the fourth year for new buildings (whether or not the building is federally subsidized) and for existing buildings.

(2) In the
case of any qualified low-income building that receives an allocation after 1989 and is a new building not federally subsidized, the term “applicable percentage” means
for each of the first three years, 9 percent of the qualified basis of the building, and for the fourth year, 3 percent of the qualified basis of the building.

(3) In the case of any qualified low-income building that is a new building that is federally subsidized and receiving an allocation pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (g), the term “applicable percentage” means for each of the first three years, 9 percent of the qualified basis of the building, and for the fourth year, 3
percent of the qualified basis of the building.

(4) In the case of any qualified low-income building that receives an allocation after 1989 pursuant to subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (g) and that is a new building that is federally subsidized or that is an existing building that is “at risk of conversion,” the term “applicable percentage” means for each of the first three years, 4 percent of the qualified basis of the building, and for the fourth year, 1 percent of the qualified basis of the building.

(5) In the case of any qualified low-income building that meets all of the requirements of subparagraphs (A) to (D), inclusive, the term “applicable percentage” means 30 percent for each of the first three years and 5 percent for the fourth year. A qualified low-income building receiving an allocation under this paragraph is ineligible to also receive an allocation under paragraph (3).

(A) The qualified low-income building is at least 15 years old.

(B) The qualified low-income building is either:

(i) Serving households of very low income or extremely low
income such that the average maximum household income as restricted, pursuant to an existing regulatory agreement with a federal, state, county, local, or other governmental agency, is not more than 45 percent of the area median gross income, as determined under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, adjusted by household size, and a tax credit regulatory agreement is entered into for a period of not less than 55 years restricting the average targeted household income to no more than 45 percent of the area median income.

(ii) Financed under Section 514 or 521 of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. Sec. 1485).

(C) The qualified low-income building would have insufficient credits under paragraphs (2) and (3) to complete substantial rehabilitation due
to a low appraised value.

(D) The qualified low-income building will complete the substantial rehabilitation in connection with the credit allocation herein.

(6) For purposes of this section, the term “at risk of conversion,” with respect to an existing property, means a property that satisfies all of the following criteria:

(A) The property is a multifamily rental housing development in which at least 50 percent of the units receive governmental assistance pursuant to any of the following:

(i) New construction, substantial rehabilitation, moderate rehabilitation, property disposition, and loan management set-aside programs, or any other program providing project-based assistance pursuant to Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, Section
1437f of Title 42 of the United States Code, as amended.

(ii) The Below-Market-Interest-Rate Program pursuant to Section 221(d)(3) of the National Housing Act, Sections 1715l(d)(3) and (5) of Title 12 of the United States Code.

(iii) Section 236 of the National Housing Act, Section 1715z-1 of Title 12 of the United States Code.

(iv) Programs for rent supplement assistance pursuant to Section 101 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965, Section 1701s of Title 12 of the United States Code, as amended.

(v) Programs under Sections 514, 515, 516, 533, and 538 of the Housing Act of 1949 (Public Law 81-171), as amended.

(vi) The low-income housing credit program set forth in
Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, this section, and Sections 12206 and 23610.5.

(vii) Programs for loans or grants administered by the Department of Housing and Community Development.

(viii) Section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. Sec. 1701q), as amended.

(ix) Section 142(d) of the Internal Revenue Code or its predecessors.

(x) Section 147 of the Internal Revenue Code, as enacted by the Tax Reform Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-514), or as subsequently amended, including as amended by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-97) and all amendments enacted prior to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-97).

(xi) Title
I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended.

(xii) Title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, as amended.

(xiii) Titles IV and V of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act of 1987, as amended, including the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Supportive Housing Program, Shelter Plus Care Program, and surplus federal property disposition program.

(xiv) The following assistance provided by counties and cities in exchange for restrictions on the maximum rents that may be charged for units within a multifamily rental housing development and on the maximum
tenant income as a condition of eligibility for occupancy of the unit subject to the rent restriction, as reflected by a recorded agreement with a county or city:

(I) Loans or grants provided using tax increment financing pursuant to the Community Redevelopment Law (Part 1 (commencing with Section 33000) of Division 24 of the Health and Safety Code).

(II) Local housing trust funds, as referred to in Section 50843 of the Health and Safety Code.

(III) The sale or lease of public property at or below market rates.

(IV) The granting of density bonuses, or concessions or incentives, including fee waivers, parking variances, or amendments to general plans, zoning, or redevelopment project area plans, pursuant to Chapter 4.3 (commencing with Section 65915) of
Division 1 of Title 7 of the Government Code.

(B) As used in subparagraph (A), “government assistance” shall not include the use of tenant-based housing choice vouchers under subsection (o) of Section 1437f of Title 42 of the United States Code, excluding paragraph (13) relating to project-based assistance. Restrictions shall not include any rent control or rent stabilization ordinance imposed by a county or city.

(C) If the development is subject to restrictions on rent and income levels, 50 percent of the units are also restricted to initial occupancy by lower income households, as defined in Section 50079.5 of the Health and Safety Code.

(D) The restrictions on rent and income levels, excluding any restrictions recorded pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (e) of Section 65863.11 or Section 65863.13 of the
Government Code or in connection with interim or acquisition financing, will terminate or the federally insured mortgage or rent subsidy contract on the property is eligible for prepayment or termination any time within five years before or after the date of application to the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee.

(E) The entity acquiring the property enters into a regulatory agreement that requires the property to be operated in accordance with the requirements of Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code and any further requirements added by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee to implement the low-income housing tax credit established by Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. Sec. 42), this section, and Sections 12206 and 23610.5 pursuant to Chapter 3.6 (commencing with Section 50199.4) of Part 1 of Division 31 of the Health and Safety Code.

(F) The
property satisfies the requirements of Section 42(e) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to rehabilitation expenditures treated as separate new building, except that the provisions of Section 42(e)(3)(A)(ii)(I) shall not apply.

(7) On and after January 1, 2018, in the case of any qualified low-income building that is (A) farmworker housing, as defined by paragraph (2) of subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code, and (B) is federally subsidized, the term “applicable percentage” means for each of the first three years, 20 percent of the qualified basis of the building, and for the fourth year, 15 percent of the qualified basis of the building.

(d) The term “qualified low-income housing project” as defined in Section 42(c)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to qualified low-income building, is modified by adding the following requirements:

(1) The taxpayer shall be entitled to receive a cash distribution from the operations of the project, after funding required reserves, that, at the election of the taxpayer, is equal to:

(A) An amount not to exceed 8 percent of the lesser of:

(i) The owner equity, which shall include the amount of the capital contributions actually paid to the housing sponsor and shall not include any amounts until they are paid on an investor note.

(ii) Twenty percent of the adjusted basis of the building as of the close of the first taxable year of the credit period.

(B) The amount of the cashflow from those units in the building that are not low-income units. For purposes of computing cashflow under this
subparagraph, operating costs shall be allocated to the low-income units using the “floor space fraction,” as defined in Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit.

(C) Any amount allowed to be distributed under subparagraph (A) that is not available for distribution during the first 5 years of the compliance period may be accumulated and distributed any time during the first 15 years of the compliance period but not thereafter.

(2) The limitation on return shall apply in the aggregate to the partners if the housing sponsor is a partnership and in the aggregate to the shareholders if the housing sponsor is an “S” corporation.

(3) The housing sponsor shall apply any cash available for distribution in excess of the amount eligible to be distributed under paragraph (1) to reduce the
rent on rent-restricted units or to increase the number of rent-restricted units subject to the tests of Section 42(g)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to in general.

(e) The provisions of Section 42(f) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to definition and special rules relating to credit period, shall be modified as follows:

(1) The term “credit period” as defined in Section 42(f)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to credit period defined, is modified by substituting “four taxable years” for “10 taxable years.”

(2) The special rule for the first taxable year of the credit period under Section 42(f)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to special rules for 1st year of credit period, shall not apply to the tax credit under this section.

(3) Section 42(f)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to determination of applicable percentage with respect to increases in qualified basis after 1st year of credit period, is modified to read:

If, as of the close of any taxable year in the compliance period, after the first year of the credit period, the qualified basis of any building exceeds the qualified basis of that building as of the close of the first year of the credit period, the housing sponsor, to the extent of its tax credit allocation, shall be eligible for a credit on the excess in an amount equal to the applicable percentage determined pursuant to subdivision (c) for the four-year period beginning with the taxable year in which the increase in qualified basis occurs.

(f) The provisions of Section 42(h) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to limitation on aggregate
credit allowable with respect to projects located in a state, shall be modified as follows:

(1) Section 42(h)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to allocated credit amount to apply to all taxable years ending during or after credit allocation year, does not apply and instead the following provisions apply:

The total amount for the four-year credit period of the housing credit dollars allocated in a calendar year to any building shall reduce the aggregate housing credit dollar amount of the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee for the calendar year in which the allocation is made.

(2) Paragraphs (3), (4), (5), (6)(E)(i)(II), (6)(F), (6)(G), (6)(I), (7), and (8) of Section 42(h) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to limitation on aggregate credit allowable with respect to projects located in a state, do not apply to this
section.

(g) The aggregate housing credit dollar amount that may be allocated annually by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee pursuant to this section, Section 12206, and Section 23610.5 shall be an amount equal to the sum of all the following:

(1) (A) Seventy million dollars ($70,000,000) for the 2001 calendar year, and, for the 2002 calendar year and each calendar year thereafter, seventy million dollars ($70,000,000) increased by the percentage, if any, by which the Consumer Price Index for the preceding calendar year exceeds the Consumer Price Index for the 2001 calendar year. For the purposes of this paragraph, the term “Consumer Price Index” means the last Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers published by the
United States Department of Labor.

(B) Five hundred million dollars ($500,000,000) for the 2020 calendar year, and up to five hundred million dollars ($500,000,000) for the 2021 calendar year and every year thereafter. Allocations shall only be available pursuant to this subparagraph in the 2021 calendar year and thereafter if the annual Budget Act, or if any bill providing for appropriations related to the Budget Act, specifies an amount to be available for allocation in that calendar year by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, and after the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee have adopted regulations, rules, or guidelines to align the programs of both committees with the objective of increasing production and containing costs as described in clause (iii). The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall accept applications for
the 2021 calendar year not sooner than 30 days after these regulations, rules, or guidelines have been adopted. The California Debt Limit Allocation Committee shall not accept applications for the 2021 calendar year for bond allocations for an eligible project under this section prior to issuing, reviewing, and publishing a new tax-exempt private activity bond demand survey. A housing sponsor receiving a nonfederally subsidized allocation under subdivision (c) shall not be eligible for receipt of the housing credit allocated from the increased amount under this subparagraph. Except as provided in clause (vi), a housing sponsor receiving a nonfederally subsidized allocation under subdivision (c) shall remain eligible for receipt of the housing credit allocated from the credit ceiling amount under subparagraph (A).

(i) Eligible projects for allocations under this subparagraph include any new building, as defined in Section 42(i)(4) of the
Internal Revenue Code, relating to newly constructed buildings, and the regulations promulgated thereunder, excluding rehabilitation expenditures under Section 42(e) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to rehabilitation expenditures treated as separate new building, and is federally subsidized. Eligible projects for allocations under this subparagraph also include any retrofitting and repurposing of existing nonresidential structures, including, but not limited to, hotels and motels, that were converted to residential use within the previous five years from the date of the application.

(ii) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, for allocations pursuant to this subparagraph for the 2020 calendar year, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall consider projects located throughout the state and shall allocate housing credits, subject to the minimum federal requirements as set forth in Sections 42 and 142 of the
Internal Revenue Code, the minimum requirements set forth in Sections 5033 and 5190 of the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee regulations, and the minimum set forth in Section 10326 of the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee regulations, for projects that can begin construction within 180 days from award, subject to availability of funds.

(iii) (I) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, for allocations pursuant to this subparagraph for the 2021 calendar year and thereafter, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee shall develop and prescribe regulations, rules, or guidelines necessary to implement a new allocation methodology that is aimed at increasing production and containing costs, which would include a scoring system that
maximizes the efficient use of public subsidy and benefit created through the private activity bond and low-income housing tax credit programs. The factors for determining the efficient use of public subsidy and benefit shall include, but not be limited to, all of the following:

(ia) The number and size of units developed including local incentives provided to increase density.

(ib) The proximity to amenities, jobs, and public transportation.

(ic) The location of the development.

(id) The delivery of housing affordable to very low and extremely low income households by the development.

(II) The efficient use of public subsidy and benefit criteria specified in this clause shall take into
account the total state subsidy provided and prioritize cost containment and increased unit production. These regulations, rules, or guidelines developed pursuant to this subparagraph shall also consider updated definitions for at-risk preservation and new construction.

(III) For bond allocations for the 2021 calendar year to projects eligible for an allocation under this subparagraph, the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee may adopt emergency regulations.

(IV) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall consider amending the regulations establishing a scoring system, as required by this clause, to also grant, for farmworker housing as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code, maximum points to farmworker housing projects under the housing needs category, and an initial five points in the category for site amenities beyond those
required as additional thresholds.

(V) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall consider amending the regulations establishing a scoring system, as required by this clause, to establish a housing type for farmworker housing projects. For the purpose of assigning points based on the proximity of amenities to an eligible farmworker housing project, the committee shall consider using the same point allocations as provided for rural set-aside projects.

(iv) Of the amount available pursuant to this subparagraph, and notwithstanding any other requirement of this section, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate up to two hundred million dollars ($200,000,000) for housing financed by the California Housing Finance Agency
under its Mixed-Income Program.

(v) (I) For the calendar years of 2024 to 2034, inclusive, of the amount available pursuant to this subparagraph, the lesser of 5 percent of that amount or twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000) per calendar year shall be set aside for projects to provide farmworker housing, as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code, and administered consistent with the credits available pursuant to paragraph (4).

(II) Any credits pursuant to this clause that remain unallocated following the conclusion of a funding round shall roll over to consecutive subsequent funding rounds in that calendar year with the exception that any credits that remain unallocated after the final funding round in that calendar year shall be added back to the aggregate amount of credits that may be allocated pursuant to this
subparagraph.

(III) For the 2035 calendar year, and every year thereafter, of the amount available pursuant to this subparagraph, a portion of the amount allocated shall be set aside for projects to provide farmworker housing, as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code. The amount set aside shall be determined by the Legislature upon consideration of the comprehensive strategy, or most recent update thereof, provided by the Department of Housing and Community Development pursuant to subdivision (c) of Section 50408.5 of the Health and Safety Code.

(vi) (I) For any calendar year in which the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee has declared a competition for the award of tax-exempt bond authority for qualified residential rental projects, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate some or all of the
credits allocated under this subparagraph, except for any credits allocated for housing financed by the California Housing Finance Agency under its Mixed-Income Program, for nonfederally subsidized buildings eligible for credits under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, and shall allocate the remainder of these credits for new buildings, as defined in Section 42(i)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to new buildings, that are federally subsidized and that can begin construction within a reasonable time, as determined by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee.

(II) For any calendar year in which the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee has not declared a competition for the award of tax-exempt bond authority for qualified residential rental projects, projects receiving an award of credits pursuant to this subparagraph shall begin construction within a reasonable time, as determined
by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee.

(III) Notwithstanding subclauses (I) and (II), if credits available under this subparagraph remain unallocated after the final California Debt Limit Allocation Committee round for qualified residential rental projects in a given calendar year, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate some or all of the remaining credits for nonfederally subsidized buildings eligible for credits under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit.

(2) The unused housing credit ceiling, if any, for the preceding calendar years.

(3) The amount of housing credit ceiling returned in the calendar year. For purposes of this paragraph, the amount of housing credit dollar amount returned in the calendar year equals the housing credit dollar
amount previously allocated to any project that does not become a qualified low-income housing project within the period required by this section or to any project with respect to which an allocation is canceled by mutual consent of the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and the allocation recipient.

(4) Five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) per calendar year for projects to provide farmworker housing, as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code.

(5) The amount of any unallocated or returned credits under former Sections 17053.14, 23608.2, and 23608.3, as those sections read prior to January 1, 2009, until fully exhausted for projects to provide farmworker housing, as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code.

(6) No amount shall be provided for projects to provide farmworker housing used to comply with the requirement under Section 1188(c)(4) of Title 8 of the United States Code to furnish housing to H-2A workers.

(h) The term “compliance period” as defined in Section 42(i)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to compliance period, is modified to mean, with respect to any building, the period of 30 consecutive taxable years beginning with the first taxable year of the credit period with respect thereto.

(i) Section 42(j) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to recapture of credit, shall not be applicable and the following requirements of this section shall be set forth in a regulatory agreement between the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and the housing
sponsor, and the regulatory agreement shall be subordinated, when required, to any lien or encumbrance of any banks or other institutional lenders to the project. The regulatory agreement entered into pursuant to subdivision (f) of Section 50199.14 of the Health and Safety Code shall apply, provided that the agreement includes all of the following provisions:

(1) A term not less than the compliance period.

(2) A requirement that the agreement be recorded in the official records of the county in which the qualified low-income housing project is located.

(3) A provision stating which state and local agencies can enforce the regulatory agreement in the event the housing sponsor fails to satisfy any of the requirements of this section.

(4) A provision that
the regulatory agreement shall be deemed a contract enforceable by tenants as third-party beneficiaries thereto and that allows individuals, whether prospective, present, or former occupants of the building, who meet the income limitation applicable to the building, the right to enforce the regulatory agreement in any state court.

(5) A provision incorporating the requirements of Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, as modified by this section.

(6) A requirement that the housing sponsor notify the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee or its designee if there is a determination by the Internal Revenue Service that the project is not in compliance with Section 42(g) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to qualified low-income housing project.

(7) A requirement that the
housing sponsor, as security for the performance of the housing sponsor’s obligations under the regulatory agreement, assign the housing sponsor’s interest in rents that it receives from the project, provided that until there is a default under the regulatory agreement, the housing sponsor is entitled to collect and retain the rents.

(8) A provision that the remedies available in the event of a default under the regulatory agreement that is not cured within a reasonable cure period include, but are not limited to, allowing any of the parties designated to enforce the regulatory agreement to collect all rents with respect to the project; taking possession of the project and operating the project in accordance with the regulatory agreement until the enforcer determines the housing sponsor is in a position to operate the project in accordance with the regulatory agreement; applying to any court for specific performance; securing the appointment of
a receiver to operate the project; or any other relief as may be appropriate.

(j) (1) The committee shall allocate the housing credit on a regular basis consisting of two or more periods in each calendar year during which applications may be filed and considered. The committee shall establish application filing deadlines, the maximum percentage of federal and state low-income housing tax credit ceiling that may be allocated by the committee in that period, and the approximate date on which allocations shall be made. If the enactment of federal or state law, the adoption of rules or regulations, or other similar events prevent the use of two allocation periods, the committee may reduce the number of periods and adjust the filing deadlines, maximum percentage of credit allocated, and the allocation dates.

(2) The committee shall adopt a qualified allocation
plan, as provided in Section 42(m)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to plans for allocation of credit among projects. In adopting this plan, the committee shall comply with the provisions of Sections 42(m)(1)(B) and 42(m)(1)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to qualified allocation plan and relating to certain selection criteria must be used, respectively.

(3) Notwithstanding Section 42(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to responsibilities of housing credit agencies, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall allocate housing credits in accordance with the qualified allocation plan and regulations, which shall include the following provisions:

(A) All housing sponsors, as defined by paragraph (3) of subdivision (a), shall demonstrate at the time the application is filed with the committee that the project meets the following threshold
requirements:

(i) The housing sponsor shall demonstrate that there is a need and demand for low-income housing in the community or region for which it is proposed.

(ii) The project’s proposed financing, including tax credit proceeds, shall be sufficient to complete the project and that the proposed operating income shall be adequate to operate the project for the extended use period.

(iii) The project shall have enforceable financing commitments, either construction or permanent financing, for at least 50 percent of the total estimated financing of the project.

(iv) The housing sponsor shall have and maintain control of the site for the project.

(v) The housing sponsor shall demonstrate
that the project complies with all applicable local land use and zoning ordinances.

(vi) The housing sponsor shall demonstrate that the project development team has the experience and the financial capacity to ensure project completion and operation for the extended use period.

(vii) The housing sponsor shall demonstrate the amount of tax credit that is necessary for the financial feasibility of the project and its viability as a qualified low-income housing project throughout the extended use period, taking into account operating expenses, a supportable debt service, reserves, funds set aside for rental subsidies and required equity, and a development fee that does not exceed a specified percentage of the eligible basis of the project prior to inclusion of the development fee in the eligible basis, as determined by the committee.

(B) The committee shall give a preference to those projects satisfying all of the threshold requirements of subparagraph (A) if both of the following apply:

(i) The project serves the lowest income tenants at rents affordable to those tenants.

(ii) The project is obligated to serve qualified tenants for the longest period.

(C) In addition to the provisions of subparagraphs (A) and (B), the committee shall use the following criteria in allocating housing credits:

(i) Projects serving large families in which a substantial number, as defined by the committee, of all residential units are low-income units with three or more bedrooms.

(ii) Projects providing single-room occupancy units serving very low income tenants.

(iii) Existing projects that are “at risk of conversion,” as defined by paragraph (6) of subdivision (c).

(iv) Projects for which a public agency provides direct or indirect long-term financial support for at least 15 percent of the total project development costs or projects for which the owner’s equity constitutes at least 30 percent of the total project development costs.

(v) Projects that provide tenant amenities not generally available to residents of low-income housing projects.

(D) Subparagraphs (B) and (C) shall not apply to projects receiving an allocation pursuant to
subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (g).

(4) For purposes of allocating credits pursuant to this section, the committee shall not give preference to any project by virtue of the date of submission of its application.

(k) Section 42(l) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to certifications and other reports to secretary, shall be modified as follows:

The term “secretary” shall be replaced by the term “Franchise Tax Board.”

(l) In the case in which the credit allowed under this section exceeds the “net tax,” the excess may be carried over to reduce the “net tax” in the following year, and succeeding years, if necessary, until the credit has been exhausted.

(m) A project that received an allocation of a 1989 federal housing credit dollar amount shall be eligible to receive an allocation of a 1990 state housing credit dollar amount, subject to
all of the following conditions:

(1) The project was not placed in service prior to 1990.

(2) To the extent the amendments made to this section by the Statutes of 1990 conflict with any provisions existing in this section prior to those amendments, the prior provisions of law shall prevail.

(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (2), a project applying for an allocation under this subdivision shall be subject to the requirements of paragraph (3) of subdivision (j).

(n) The credit period with respect to an allocation of credit in 1989 by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee of which any amount is attributable to unallocated credit from 1987 or 1988 shall not begin until after December 31, 1989.

(o) The provisions of Section 11407(a) of Public Law 101-508, relating to the effective date of the extension of the low-income housing credit, apply to calendar years after 1989.

(p) The provisions of Section 11407(c) of Public Law 101-508, relating to election to accelerate credit, shall not apply.

(q) (1) (A) For a project that receives a preliminary reservation under this section beginning on or after January 1, 2016, a taxpayer may elect, in the manner prescribed by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, to sell all or any portion of any credit allowed, subject to subparagraph (B). The taxpayer may make the election to sell pursuant to this subdivision at any time before the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee allocates a final credit amount for the project pursuant to this section, at which point the
election shall become irrevocable.

(B) A credit that a taxpayer elects to sell all or a portion of pursuant to this subdivision shall be sold for consideration that is not less than 80 percent of the amount of the credit.

(2) (A) The taxpayer that originally received the credit shall report to the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee within 10 days of the sale of the credit, in the form and manner specified by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, all required information regarding the purchase and sale of the credit, including the social security or other taxpayer identification number of the unrelated party or parties to whom the credit has been sold, the face amount of the credit sold, and the amount of consideration received by the taxpayer for the sale of the credit.

(B) The
California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall provide an annual listing to the Franchise Tax Board, in a form and manner agreed upon by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and the Franchise Tax Board, of the taxpayers that have sold or purchased a credit pursuant to this subdivision.

(3) A credit may be sold pursuant to this subdivision to more than one unrelated party.

(4) Notwithstanding any other law, the taxpayer that originally received the credit that is sold pursuant to paragraph (1) shall remain solely liable for all obligations and liabilities imposed on the taxpayer by this section with respect to the credit, none of which shall apply to a party to whom the credit has been sold or subsequently transferred. Parties that purchase credits pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be entitled to utilize the purchased credits in the same manner in which the taxpayer that
originally received the credit could utilize them.

(5) A taxpayer shall not sell a credit allowed by this section if the taxpayer was allowed the credit on any tax return of the taxpayer.

(r) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may prescribe rules, guidelines, or procedures necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this section, including any guidelines regarding the allocation of the credit allowed under this section. Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code shall not apply to any rule, guideline, or procedure prescribed by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee pursuant to this section.

(s) The amendments to this section made by Chapter 1222 of the Statutes of 1993 apply only to taxable years beginning on or after January 1,
1994.

(t) This section shall remain in effect on and after December 1, 1990, for as long as Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, remains in effect. Any unused credit may continue to be carried forward, as provided in subdivision (l), until the credit has been exhausted.

SEC. 14.
Section 23610.5 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is amended to read:

23610.5.
(a) (1) There shall be allowed as a credit against the “tax,” defined in Section 23036, a state low-income housing tax credit in an amount equal to the amount determined in subdivision (c), computed in accordance with Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, as applicable for federal income tax purposes for the taxable year, except as otherwise provided in this section.

(2) “Taxpayer,” for purposes of this section, means the sole owner in the case of a “C” corporation, the partners in the case of a partnership, and the shareholders in the case of an “S” corporation.

(3) “Housing sponsor,” for purposes of this section, means the sole owner in the case of a “C” corporation, the partnership in the case of a partnership, and the “S” corporation in the case of an “S” corporation.

(b) (1) The amount of the credit allocated to any housing sponsor shall be authorized by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, or any successor thereof, based on a project’s need for the credit for economic feasibility in accordance with the requirements of this section.

(A) The low-income housing project shall be located in California and shall meet either of the following requirements:

(i) Except for projects to provide farmworker housing, as defined in subdivision
(h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code, that are allocated credits solely under the set-aside described in subdivision (c) of Section 50199.20 of the Health and Safety Code, the project’s housing sponsor has been allocated by the
California Tax Credit Allocation Committee a credit for federal income tax purposes under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit.

(ii) It qualifies for a credit under Section 42(h)(4)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to special rule where minimum percent of buildings is financed with tax-exempt bonds subject to volume cap.

(B) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall not require fees for the credit under this section in addition to those fees required for applications for the tax credit pursuant to Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit. The committee may require a fee if the application for the credit under this section is submitted in a calendar year after the year
the application is submitted for the federal tax credit.

(C) (i) For a project that receives a preliminary reservation of the state low-income housing tax credit, allowed pursuant to subdivision (a), on or after January 1, 2009, the credit shall be allocated to the partners of a partnership owning the project in accordance with the partnership agreement, regardless of how the federal low-income housing tax credit with respect to the project is allocated to the partners, or whether the allocation of the credit under the terms of the agreement has substantial economic effect, within the meaning of Section 704(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to determination of distributive share.

(ii) To the extent the allocation of the credit to a partner under this
section lacks substantial economic effect, any loss or deduction otherwise allowable under this part that is attributable to the sale or other disposition of that partner’s partnership interest made prior to the expiration of the federal credit shall not be allowed in the taxable year in which the sale or other disposition occurs, but shall instead be deferred until and treated as if it occurred in the first taxable year immediately following the taxable year in which the federal credit period expires for the project described in clause (i).

(iii) This subparagraph shall not apply to a project that receives a preliminary reservation of state low-income housing tax credits under the set-aside described in subdivision (c) of Section 50199.20 of the Health and Safety Code unless the project also receives a preliminary reservation of federal low-income
housing tax credits.

(2) (A) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall certify to the housing sponsor the amount of tax credit under this section allocated to the housing sponsor for each credit period.

(B) In the case of a partnership or an “S” corporation, the housing sponsor shall provide a copy of the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee certification to the taxpayer.

(C) (i) A taxpayer shall be eligible to claim the credit commencing in the taxable year the building is placed in service and the federal credit period commences, notwithstanding that the certification pursuant to subparagraph (A) has not been issued by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee,
provided that the housing sponsor has filed a taxpayer certification with the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and delivered a copy to the taxpayer. The amount of credit claimed by the taxpayer shall not exceed the pro rata share with respect to the amount of credit that the taxpayer purchased or is allocated per the partnership agreement, as applicable, of the lesser of either of the following:

(I) The applicable percentages for each of the four credit years, as specified in subdivision (c), multiplied by the qualified basis of the building set forth in the preliminary reservation.

(II) The amount of credit the project is eligible for as stated in the taxpayer certification.

(ii) The California Tax Credit
Allocation Committee may, but is not required to, review the taxpayer certification and other information provided by the housing sponsor to confirm both of the following:

(I) The calculations set forth in the taxpayer certification.

(II) The amount of credits allocated to the project is consistent with applicable California Tax Credit Allocation Committee rules and regulations for the purposes of making the certification required pursuant to subparagraph (A).

(iii) If the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee issues a certification pursuant to subparagraph (A) that is inconsistent with the taxpayer certification upon which a credit has been claimed, the taxpayer shall amend any previously filed tax returns to
reflect the credit amount certified by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee pursuant to subparagraph (A).

(iv) For purposes of this subparagraph, “taxpayer certification” means a certified statement from the certified public accountant of the housing sponsor. The taxpayer certification shall contain the amount of the credit the project is eligible for, the taxable year the building is placed in service, and the taxable year in which the federal credit period for the building has commenced.

(v) The taxpayer shall, upon request, provide a copy of the taxpayer certification pursuant to clause (iv) or the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee’s certification pursuant to subparagraph (A), as applicable, to the Franchise Tax Board.

(vi) In the case of a failure to provide a copy of the taxpayer certification pursuant to clause (iv) or the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee’s certification pursuant to subparagraph (A), if the Franchise Tax Board so requires, no credit under this section shall be allowed for that taxable year until a copy of that certification is provided.

(vii) The changes made to this subparagraph by the act adding this clause shall apply for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2023.

(D) All elections made by the taxpayer pursuant to Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, shall apply to this section.

(E) (i) Except as described in clause (ii) or
(iii), for buildings located in designated difficult development areas (DDAs) or qualified census tracts (QCTs), as defined in Section 42(d)(5)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to increase in credit for buildings in high-cost areas, credits may be allocated under this section in the amounts prescribed in subdivision (c), provided that the amount of credit allocated under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, is computed on 100 percent of the qualified basis of the building.

(ii) Notwithstanding clause (i), the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate the credit for buildings designated under Section 42(d)(5)(B)(v) of the Internal Revenue Code that are restricted to having 50 percent of the building’s occupants be special needs households, as defined in the California
Code of Regulations by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, provided that the credit allowed under this section shall not exceed 30 percent of the eligible basis of the building.

(iii) On and after January 1, 2018, notwithstanding clause (i), the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate the credit pursuant to paragraph (7) of subdivision (c) or subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (g), even if the taxpayer receives federal credits, pursuant to Section 42(d)(5)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to increase in credit for buildings in high-cost areas.

(F) (i) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate a credit under this section in exchange for a credit allocated pursuant to Section
42(d)(5)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to increase in credit for buildings in high-cost areas, in amounts up to 30 percent of the eligible basis of a building if the credits allowed under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, are reduced by an equivalent amount.

(ii) An equivalent amount shall be determined by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee based upon the relative amount required to produce an equivalent state tax credit to the taxpayer.

(c) Section 42(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to applicable percentage: 70 percent present value credit for certain new buildings; 30 percent present value credit for certain other buildings, shall be modified as follows:

(1) In the case of any qualified low-income building placed in service by the housing sponsor during 1987, the term “applicable percentage” means 9 percent for each of the first three years and 3 percent for the fourth year for new buildings (whether or not the building is federally subsidized) and for existing buildings.

(2) In the case of any qualified low-income building that receives an allocation after 1989 and is a new building not federally subsidized, the term “applicable percentage” means for each of the first three years, 9 percent of the qualified basis of the building, and for the fourth year, 3 percent of the qualified basis of the building.

(3) In the case of any qualified low-income building that is a new building and is federally subsidized and receiving an
allocation pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (g), the term “applicable percentage” means for each of the first three years, 9 percent of the qualified basis of the building, and for the fourth year, 3 percent of the qualified basis of the building.

(4) In the case of any qualified low-income building that receives an allocation after 1989 pursuant to subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (g) and that is a new building that is federally subsidized or that is an existing building that is “at risk of conversion,” the term “applicable percentage” means for each of the first three years, 4 percent of the qualified basis of the building, and for the fourth year, 1 percent of the qualified basis of the building.

(5) In the case of any
qualified low-income building that meets all of the requirements of subparagraphs (A) through (D), inclusive, the term “applicable percentage” means 30 percent for each of the first three years and 5 percent for the fourth year. A qualified low-income building receiving an allocation under this paragraph is ineligible to also receive an allocation under paragraph (3).

(A) The qualified low-income building is at least 15 years old.

(B) The qualified low-income building is either:

(i) Serving households of very low income or extremely low income such that the average maximum household income as restricted, pursuant to an existing regulatory agreement with a federal, state, county, local, or other governmental agency, is not more
than 45 percent of the area median gross income, as determined under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, adjusted by household size, and a tax credit regulatory agreement is entered into for a period of not less than 55 years restricting the average targeted household income to no more than 45 percent of the area median income.

(ii) Financed under Section 514, or 521 of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. Sec. 1485).

(C) The qualified low-income building would have insufficient credits under paragraphs (2) and (3) to complete substantial rehabilitation due to a low appraised value.

(D) The qualified low-income building will complete the substantial rehabilitation in connection
with the credit allocation herein.

(6) For purposes of this section, the term “at risk of conversion,” with respect to an existing property, means a property that satisfies all of the following criteria:

(A) The property is a multifamily rental housing development in which at least 50 percent of the units receive governmental assistance pursuant to any of the following:

(i) New construction, substantial rehabilitation, moderate
rehabilitation, property disposition, and loan management set-aside programs, or any other program providing project-based assistance pursuant to Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, Section 1437f of Title 42 of the United States Code, as amended.

(ii) The Below-Market-Interest-Rate Program pursuant to Section 221(d)(3) of the National Housing Act, Sections 1715l(d)(3) and (5) of Title 12 of the United States Code.

(iii) Section 236 of the National Housing Act, Section 1715z-1 of Title 12 of the United States Code.

(iv) Programs for rent supplement assistance pursuant to Section 101 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965, Section 1701s of Title 12 of the United States Code, as
amended.

(v) Programs under Sections 514, 515, 516, 533, and 538 of the Housing Act of 1949 (Public Law 81-171), as amended.

(vi) The low-income housing credit program set forth in Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, this section, and Sections 12206 and 17058.

(vii) Programs for loans or grants administered by the Department of Housing and Community Development.

(viii) Section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. Sec. 1701q), as amended.

(ix) Section 142(d) of the Internal Revenue Code or its predecessors.

(x) Section 147 of the Internal Revenue Code, as enacted by the Tax Reform Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-514), or as subsequently amended, including as amended by the Tax Cuts and
Jobs Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-97) and all amendments enacted prior to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-97).

(xi) Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended.

(xii) Title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, as amended.

(xiii) Titles IV and V of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act of 1987, as amended, including the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Supportive Housing Program, Shelter Plus Care Program, and surplus federal property disposition program.

(xiv) The following assistance provided by counties and cities in exchange for restrictions on the
maximum rents that may be charged for units within a multifamily rental housing development and on the maximum tenant income as a condition of eligibility for occupancy of the unit subject to the rent restriction, as reflected by a recorded agreement with a county or city:

(I) Loans or grants provided using tax increment financing pursuant to the Community Redevelopment Law (Part 1 (commencing with Section 33000) of Division 24 of the Health and Safety Code).

(II) Local housing trust funds, as referred to in Section 50843 of the Health and Safety Code.

(III) The sale or lease of public property at or below market rates.

(IV) The granting of
density bonuses, or concessions or incentives, including fee waivers, parking variances, or amendments to general plans, zoning, or redevelopment project area plans, pursuant to Chapter 4.3 (commencing with Section
65915) of Division 1 of Title 7 of the Government Code.

(B) As used in subparagraph (A), “government assistance” shall not include the use of tenant-based housing choice vouchers under subsection (o) of Section 1437f of Title 42 of the United States Code, excluding paragraph (13) relating to project-based assistance. Restrictions shall not include any rent control or rent stabilization ordinance imposed by a county or city.

(C) If the development is subject to restrictions on rent and income levels, 50 percent of the units are also restricted to initial occupancy by lower income households, as defined in Section 50079.5 of the Health and Safety Code.

(D) The restrictions on rent and income levels, excluding any restrictions
recorded pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (e) of Section 65863.11 or Section 65863.13 of the Government Code or in connection with interim or acquisition financing, will terminate or the federally insured mortgage or rent subsidy contract on the property is eligible for prepayment or termination any time within five years before or after the date of application to the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee.

(E) The entity acquiring the property enters into a regulatory agreement that requires the property to be operated in accordance with the requirements of Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code and any further requirements added by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee to implement the low-income housing tax credit established by Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. Sec. 42), this section, and Sections
12206 and 17058 pursuant to Chapter 3.6 (commencing with Section 50199.4) of Part 1 of Division 31 of the Health and Safety Code.

(F) The property satisfies the requirements of Section 42(e) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to rehabilitation expenditures treated as separate new building, except that the provisions of Section 42(e)(3)(A)(ii)(I) shall not apply.

(7) On and after January 1, 2018, in the case of any qualified low-income building that is (A) farmworker housing, as defined by paragraph (2) of subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code, and (B) is federally subsidized, the term “applicable percentage” means for each of the first three years, 20 percent of the qualified basis of the building, and for the fourth year, 15 percent of the
qualified basis of the building.

(d) The term “qualified low-income housing project” as defined in Section 42(c)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to qualified low-income building, is modified by adding the following
requirements:

(1) The taxpayer shall be entitled to receive a cash distribution from the operations of the project, after funding required reserves, that, at the election of the taxpayer, is equal to:

(A) An amount not to exceed 8 percent of the lesser of:

(i) The owner equity, which shall include the amount of the capital contributions actually paid to the housing sponsor and shall not include any amounts until they are paid on an investor note.

(ii) Twenty percent of the adjusted basis of the building as of the close of the first taxable year of the credit period.

(B) The amount of the
cashflow from those units in the building that are not low-income units. For purposes of computing cashflow under this subparagraph, operating costs shall be allocated to the low-income units using the “floor space fraction,” as defined in Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit.

(C) Any amount allowed to be distributed under subparagraph (A) that is not available for distribution during the first 5 years of the compliance period may be accumulated and distributed any time during the first 15 years of the compliance period but not thereafter.

(2) The limitation on return shall apply in the aggregate to the partners if the housing sponsor is a partnership and in the aggregate to the shareholders if the housing sponsor is an “S”
corporation.

(3) The housing sponsor shall apply any cash available for distribution in excess of the amount eligible to be distributed under paragraph (1) to reduce the rent on rent-restricted units or to increase the number of rent-restricted units subject to the tests of Section 42(g)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to in general.

(e) The provisions of Section 42(f) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to definition and special rules relating to credit period, shall be modified as follows:

(1) The term “credit period” as defined in Section 42(f)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to credit period defined, is modified by substituting “four taxable years” for “10 taxable years.”

(2) The special rule for the first taxable year of the credit period under Section 42(f)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to special rule for 1st year of credit period, shall not apply to the tax credit under this section.

(3) Section 42(f)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to determination of applicable percentage with respect to increases in qualified basis after 1st year of credit period, is modified to read:

If, as of the close of any taxable year in the compliance period, after the first year of the credit period, the qualified basis of any building exceeds the qualified basis of that building as of the close of the first year of the credit period, the housing sponsor, to the extent of its tax credit allocation, shall
be eligible for a credit on the excess in an amount equal to the applicable percentage determined pursuant to subdivision (c) for the four-year period beginning with the later of the taxable years in which the increase in qualified basis occurs.

(f) The provisions of Section 42(h) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to limitation on aggregate credit allowable with respect to projects located in a state, shall be modified as follows:

(1) Section 42(h)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to allocated credit amount to apply to all taxable years ending during or after credit allocation year, does not apply and instead the following provisions apply:

The total amount for the four-year credit period of the housing credit dollars
allocated in a calendar year to any building shall reduce the aggregate housing credit dollar amount of the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee for the calendar year in which the allocation is made.

(2) Paragraphs (3), (4), (5), (6)(E)(i)(II), (6)(F), (6)(G), (6)(I), (7), and (8) of Section 42(h) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to limitation on aggregate credit allowable with respect to projects located in a state, do not apply to this section.

(g) The aggregate housing credit dollar amount that may be allocated annually by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee pursuant to this section, Section 12206, and Section 17058 shall be an amount equal to the sum of all the following:

(1) (A) Seventy million dollars ($70,000,000) for the 2001 calendar year, and, for the 2002 calendar year and each calendar year thereafter, seventy million dollars ($70,000,000) increased by the percentage, if any, by which the Consumer Price Index for the preceding calendar year exceeds the Consumer Price Index for the 2001 calendar year. For the purposes of this paragraph, the term “Consumer Price Index” means the last Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers published by the United States Department of Labor.

(B) Five hundred million dollars ($500,000,000) for the 2020 calendar year, and up to five hundred million dollars ($500,000,000) for the 2021 calendar year and every year thereafter. Allocations shall only be available pursuant to this subparagraph in the 2021 calendar year and thereafter if the annual Budget Act,
or if any bill providing for appropriations related to the Budget Act, specifies an amount to be available for allocation in that calendar year by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, and after the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee have adopted increasing production and containing regulations, rules, or guidelines to align the programs of both committees with the objective of increasing production and containing costs as described in clause (iii). The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall accept applications for the 2021 calendar year not sooner than 30 days after these regulations, rules, or guidelines have been adopted. The California Debt Limit Allocation Committee shall not accept applications for the 2021 calendar year for bond allocations for an eligible project under this section prior to issuing, reviewing,
and publishing a new tax-exempt private activity bond demand survey. Except as provided in clause (vi), a housing sponsor receiving a nonfederally subsidized allocation under subdivision (c) shall not be eligible for receipt of the housing credit allocated from the increased amount under this subparagraph. A housing sponsor receiving a nonfederally subsidized allocation under subdivision (c) shall remain eligible for receipt of the housing credit allocated from the credit ceiling amount under subparagraph (A).

(i) Eligible projects for allocations under this subparagraph include any new building, as defined in Section 42(i)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to newly constructed buildings, and the regulations promulgated thereunder, excluding
rehabilitation expenditures under Section 42(e) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to rehabilitation expenditures treated as separate new building, and is federally subsidized. Eligible projects for allocations under this subparagraph also include any retrofitting and repurposing of existing nonresidential structures, including, but not limited to, hotels and motels, that were converted to residential use within the previous five years from the date of the application.

(ii) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, for allocations pursuant to this subparagraph for the 2020 calendar year, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall consider projects located throughout the state and shall allocate housing credits, subject to the minimum federal requirements as set forth in Sections 42 and 142 of the
Internal Revenue Code, the minimum requirements set forth in Sections 5033 and 5190 of the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee regulations, and the minimum set forth in Section 10326 of the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee regulations, for projects that can begin construction within 180 days from award, subject to availability of funds.

(iii) (I) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, for allocations pursuant to this subparagraph for the 2021 calendar year and thereafter, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee shall develop and prescribe regulations, rules, or guidelines, necessary to implement a new allocation methodology that is aimed at increasing production and containing costs, which would include a scoring system that
maximizes the efficient use of public subsidy and benefit created through the private activity bond and low-income housing tax credit programs. The factors for determining the efficient use of public subsidy and benefit shall include, but not be limited to, all of the following:

(ia) The number and size of units developed including local incentives provided to increase density.

(ib) The proximity to amenities, jobs, and public transportation.

(ic) The location of the development.

(id) The delivery of housing affordable to very low and extremely low income households by the development.

(II) The
efficient use of public subsidy and benefit criteria specified in this clause shall take into account the total state subsidy provided and prioritize cost containment and increased unit production. These regulations, rules, or guidelines developed pursuant to this subparagraph shall also consider updated definitions for at-risk preservation and new construction.

(III) For bond allocations for the 2021 calendar year to projects eligible for an allocation under this subparagraph, the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee may adopt emergency regulations.

(IV) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall consider amending the regulations establishing a scoring system, as required by this clause, to also grant, for farmworker housing as defined in subdivision (h) of Section
50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code, maximum points to farmworker housing projects under the housing needs category, and an initial five points in the category for site amenities beyond those required as additional thresholds.

(iv) Of the amount available pursuant to this subparagraph, and notwithstanding any other requirement of this section, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate up to two hundred million dollars ($200,000,000) for housing financed by the California Housing Finance Agency under its Mixed-Income Program.

(v) (I) For the calendar years of 2024 to 2034, inclusive, of the amount available pursuant to this subparagraph, the lesser of 5
percent of that amount or twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000) per calendar year shall be set aside for projects to provide farmworker housing, as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code, and administered consistent with the credits available pursuant to paragraph (4).

(II) Any credits pursuant to this clause that remain unallocated following the conclusion of a funding round shall roll over to consecutive subsequent funding rounds in that calendar year with the exception that any credits that remain unallocated after the final funding round in that calendar year shall be added back to the aggregate amount of credits that may be allocated pursuant to this subparagraph.

(III) For the 2035 calendar year, and every year
thereafter, of the amount available pursuant to this subparagraph, a portion of the amount allocated shall be set aside for projects to provide farmworker housing, as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code. The amount set aside shall be determined by the Legislature upon consideration of the comprehensive strategy, or most recent update thereof, provided by the Department of Housing and Community Development pursuant to subdivision (c) of Section 50408.5 of the Health and Safety Code.

(vi) (I) For any calendar year in which the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee has declared a competition for the award of tax-exempt bond authority for qualified residential rental projects, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate some or all of the credits allocated under
this subparagraph, except for any credits allocated for housing financed by the California Housing Finance Agency under its Mixed-Income Program, for nonfederally subsidized buildings eligible for credits under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, and shall allocate the remainder of these credits for new buildings, as defined in Section 42(i)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to new buildings, that are federally subsidized and that can begin construction within a reasonable time, as determined by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee.

(II) For any calendar year in which the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee has not declared a competition for the award of tax-exempt bond authority for qualified residential rental
projects, projects receiving an award of credits pursuant to this subparagraph shall begin construction within a reasonable time, as determined by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee.

(III) Notwithstanding subclauses (I) and (II), if credits available under this subparagraph remain unallocated after the final California Debt Limit Allocation Committee round for qualified residential rental projects in a given calendar year, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate some or all of the remaining credits for nonfederally subsidized buildings eligible for credits under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit.

(2) The unused housing credit ceiling, if any, for the preceding calendar years.

(3) The amount of housing credit ceiling returned in the calendar
year. For purposes of this paragraph, the amount of housing credit dollar amount returned in the calendar year equals the housing credit dollar amount previously allocated to any project that does not become a qualified low-income housing project within the period required by this section or to any project with respect to which an allocation is canceled by mutual consent of the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and the allocation recipient.

(4) Five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) per calendar year for projects to provide farmworker housing, as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code.

(5) The amount of any unallocated or returned credits under former Sections 17053.14, 23608.2, and 23608.3, as those sections read prior to
January 1, 2009, until fully exhausted for projects to provide farmworker housing, as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code.

(h) The term “compliance period” as defined in Section 42(i)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to compliance period, is modified to mean, with respect to any building, the period of 30 consecutive taxable years beginning with the first taxable year of the credit period with respect thereto.

(i) Section 42(j) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to recapture of credit, shall not be applicable and the following shall be substituted in its place:

The requirements of this section shall be set forth in a regulatory agreement between the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and
the housing sponsor, and the regulatory agreement shall be subordinated, when required, to any lien or encumbrance of any banks or other institutional lenders to the project. The regulatory agreement entered into pursuant to subdivision (f) of Section 50199.14 of the Health and Safety Code shall apply, provided that the agreement includes all of the following provisions:

(1) A term not less than the compliance period.

(2) A requirement that the agreement be recorded in the official records of the county in which the qualified low-income housing project is located.

(3) A provision stating which state and local agencies can enforce the regulatory agreement in the event the housing sponsor fails to satisfy any of the
requirements of this section.

(4) A provision that the regulatory agreement shall be deemed a contract enforceable by tenants as third-party beneficiaries thereto and that allows individuals, whether prospective, present, or former
occupants of the building, who meet the income limitation applicable to the building, the right to enforce the regulatory agreement in any state court.

(5) A provision incorporating the requirements of Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, as modified by this section.

(6) A requirement that the housing sponsor notify the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee or its designee if there is a determination by the Internal Revenue Service that the project is not in compliance with Section 42(g) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to qualified low-income housing project.

(7) A requirement that the housing sponsor, as security for the performance of the housing
sponsor’s obligations under the regulatory agreement, assign the housing sponsor’s interest in rents that it receives from the project, provided that until there is a default under the regulatory agreement, the housing sponsor is entitled to collect and retain the rents.

(8) A provision that the remedies available in the event of a default under the regulatory agreement that is not cured within a reasonable cure period include, but are not limited to, allowing any of the parties designated to enforce the regulatory agreement to collect all rents with respect to the project; taking possession of the project and operating the project in accordance with the regulatory agreement until the enforcer determines the housing sponsor is in a position to operate the project in accordance with the regulatory agreement; applying to any court for specific performance;
securing the appointment of a receiver to operate the project; or any other relief as may be appropriate.

(j) (1) The committee shall allocate the housing credit on a regular basis consisting of two or more periods in each calendar year during which applications may be filed and considered. The committee shall establish application filing deadlines, the maximum percentage of federal and state low-income housing tax credit ceiling that may be allocated by the committee in that period, and the approximate date on which allocations shall be made. If the enactment of federal or state law, the adoption of rules or regulations, or other similar events prevent the use of two allocation periods, the committee may reduce the number of periods and adjust the filing deadlines, maximum percentage of credit allocated, and
allocation dates.

(2) The committee shall adopt a qualified allocation plan, as provided in Section 42(m)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to plans for allocation of credit among projects. In adopting this plan, the committee shall comply with the provisions of Sections 42(m)(1)(B) and 42(m)(1)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to qualified allocation plan and relating to certain selection criteria must be used, respectively.

(3) Notwithstanding Section 42(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to responsibilities of housing credit agencies, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall allocate housing credits in accordance with the qualified allocation plan and regulations, which shall include the following provisions:

(A) All housing sponsors, as defined by paragraph (3) of subdivision (a), shall demonstrate at the time the application is filed with the committee that the project meets the following threshold requirements:

(i) The housing sponsor shall demonstrate there is a need and demand for low-income housing in the community or region for which it is proposed.

(ii) The project’s proposed financing, including tax credit proceeds, shall be sufficient to complete the project and that the proposed operating income shall be adequate to operate the project for the extended use period.

(iii) The project shall have enforceable financing commitments, either construction or
permanent financing, for at least 50 percent of the total estimated financing of the project.

(iv) The housing sponsor shall have and maintain control of the site for the project.

(v) The housing sponsor shall demonstrate that the project complies with all applicable local land use and zoning ordinances.

(vi) The housing sponsor shall demonstrate that the project development team has the experience and the financial capacity to ensure project completion and operation for the extended use period.

(vii) The housing sponsor shall demonstrate the amount of tax credit that is necessary for the financial feasibility of the project and its viability as a
qualified low-income housing project throughout the extended use period, taking into account operating expenses, a supportable debt service, reserves, funds set aside for rental subsidies and required equity, and a development fee that does not exceed a specified percentage of the eligible basis of the project prior to inclusion of the development fee in the eligible basis, as determined by the committee.

(B) The committee shall give a preference to those projects satisfying all of the threshold requirements of subparagraph (A) if both of the following apply:

(i) The project serves the lowest income tenants at rents affordable to those tenants.

(ii) The project is obligated to serve qualified tenants for the longest
period.

(C) In addition to the provisions of subparagraphs (A) and (B), the committee shall use the following criteria in allocating housing credits:

(i) Projects serving large families in which a substantial number, as defined by the committee, of all residential units are low-income units with three or more bedrooms.

(ii) Projects providing single-room occupancy units serving very low income tenants.

(iii) Existing projects that are “at risk of conversion,” as defined
by paragraph (6) of subdivision (c).

(iv) Projects for which a public agency provides direct or indirect long-term financial support for at least 15 percent of the total project development costs or projects for which the owner’s equity constitutes at least 30 percent of the total project development costs.

(v) Projects that provide tenant amenities not generally available to residents of low-income housing projects.

(D) Subparagraph (B) and (C) shall not apply to projects receiving an allocation pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (g).

(4) For purposes of allocating credits pursuant to this section, the committee
shall not give preference to any project by virtue of the date of submission of its application except to break a tie when two or more of the projects have an equal rating.

(5) Not less than 20 percent of the low-income housing tax credits available annually under this section, Section 12206, and Section 17058 shall be set aside for allocation to rural areas as defined in Section 50199.21 of the Health and Safety Code. Any amount of credit set aside for rural areas remaining on or after October 31 of any calendar year shall be available for allocation to any eligible project. No amount of credit set aside for rural areas shall be considered available for any eligible project so long as there are eligible rural applications pending on October 31.

(k) Section 42(l) of the Internal
Revenue Code, relating to certifications and other reports to secretary, shall be modified as follows:

The term “secretary” shall be replaced by the term “Franchise
Tax Board.”

(l) In the case in which the credit allowed under this section exceeds the “tax,” the excess may be carried over to reduce the “tax” in the following year, and succeeding years, if necessary, until the credit has been exhausted.

(m) A project that received an allocation of a 1989 federal housing credit dollar amount shall be eligible to receive an allocation of a 1990 state housing credit dollar amount, subject to all of the following conditions:

(1) The project was not placed in service prior to 1990.

(2) To the extent the amendments made to this section by the Statutes of 1990 conflict with any provisions existing in this
section prior to those amendments, the prior provisions of law shall prevail.

(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (2), a project applying for an allocation under this subdivision shall be subject to the requirements of paragraph (3) of subdivision (j).

(n) The credit period with respect to an allocation of credit in 1989 by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee of which any amount is attributable to unallocated credit from 1987 or 1988 shall not begin until after December 31, 1989.

(o) The provisions of Section 11407(a) of Public Law 101-508, relating to the effective date of the extension of the low-income housing credit, apply to calendar years after 1989.

(p) The provisions of Section 11407(c) of Public Law 101-508, relating to election to accelerate credit, shall not apply.

(q) (1) A corporation may elect to assign any portion of any credit allowed under this section to one or more affiliated corporations for each taxable year in which the credit is allowed. For purposes of this subdivision, “affiliated corporation” has the meaning provided in subdivision (b) of Section 25110, as that section was amended by Chapter 881 of the Statutes of 1993, as of the last day of the taxable year in which the credit is allowed, except that “100 percent” is substituted for “more than 50 percent” wherever it appears in the section, as that section was amended by Chapter 881 of the Statutes of 1993, and “voting common stock” is substituted for “voting stock” wherever it appears in
the section, as that section was amended by Chapter 881 of the Statutes of 1993.

(2) The election provided in paragraph (1):

(A) May be based on any method selected by the corporation that originally receives the credit.

(B) Shall be irrevocable for the taxable year the credit is allowed, once made.

(C) May be changed for any subsequent taxable year if the election to make the assignment is expressly shown on each of the returns of the affiliated corporations that assign and receive the credits.

(r) (1) (A) For a project that receives a preliminary
reservation under this section beginning on or after January 1, 2016, a taxpayer may elect, in the manner prescribed by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, to sell all or any portion of any credit allowed, subject to subparagraph (B). The taxpayer may make the election to sell pursuant to this subdivision at any time before the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee allocates a final credit amount for the project pursuant to this section, at which point the election shall become irrevocable.

(B) A credit that a taxpayer elects to sell all or a portion of pursuant to this subdivision shall be sold for consideration that is not less than 80 percent of the amount of the credit.

(2) (A) The taxpayer that originally received the credit shall report
to the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee within 10 days of the sale of the credit, in the form and manner specified by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, all required information regarding the purchase and sale of the credit, including the social security or other taxpayer identification number of the unrelated party or parties to whom the credit has been sold, the face amount of the credit sold, and the amount of consideration received by the taxpayer for the sale of the credit.

(B) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall provide an annual listing to the Franchise Tax Board, in a form and manner agreed upon by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and the Franchise Tax Board, of the taxpayers that have sold or purchased a credit pursuant to this subdivision.

(3) A credit may be sold pursuant to this subdivision to more than one unrelated party.

(4) Notwithstanding any other law, the taxpayer that originally received the credit that is sold pursuant to paragraph (1) shall remain solely liable for all obligations and liabilities imposed on the taxpayer by this section with respect to the credit, none of which shall apply to a party to whom the credit has been sold or subsequently transferred. Parties that purchase credits pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be entitled to utilize the purchased credits in the same manner in which the taxpayer that originally received the credit could utilize them.

(5) A taxpayer shall not sell a credit allowed by this section if the taxpayer was allowed the credit on any tax return of the taxpayer.

(s) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may prescribe rules, guidelines, or procedures necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this section, including any guidelines regarding the allocation of the credit allowed under this section. Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code shall not apply to any rule, guideline, or procedure prescribed by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee pursuant to this section.

(t) Any unused credit may continue to be carried forward, as provided in subdivision (l), until the credit has been exhausted.

(u) This section shall remain in effect on and after December 1, 1990, for as long as Section 42 of
the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, remains in effect.

(v) The amendments to this section made by Chapter 1222 of the Statutes of 1993 shall apply only to taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 1994, except that paragraph (1) of subdivision (q), as amended, shall apply to taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 1993.

SEC. 14.5.
Section 23610.5 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is amended to read:

23610.5.
(a) (1) There shall be allowed as a credit against the “tax,” defined in Section 23036, a state low-income housing tax credit in an amount equal to the amount determined in subdivision (c), computed in accordance with Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, as applicable for federal income tax purposes for the taxable year, except as otherwise provided in this section.

(2) “Taxpayer,” for purposes of this section, means the sole owner in the case of a “C” corporation, the partners in the case of a partnership, and the shareholders in the case of an “S” corporation.

(3) “Housing sponsor,” for purposes of this section, means the sole owner in the case of a “C” corporation, the partnership in the case of a partnership, and the “S” corporation in the case of an “S” corporation.

(b) (1) The amount of the credit allocated to any housing sponsor shall be authorized by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, or any successor thereof, based on a project’s need for the credit for economic feasibility in accordance with the requirements of this section.

(A) The low-income housing project shall be located in California and shall meet either of the following requirements:

(i) Except for projects to provide farmworker housing, as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety
Code, that are allocated credits solely under the set-aside described in subdivision (c) of Section 50199.20 of the Health and Safety Code, the project’s housing sponsor has been allocated by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee a credit for federal income tax purposes under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit.

(ii) It qualifies for a credit under Section 42(h)(4)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to special rule where minimum percent of
buildings is financed with tax-exempt bonds subject to volume cap.

(B) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall not require fees for the credit under this section in addition to those fees required for applications for the tax credit pursuant to Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit. The committee may require a fee if the application for the credit under this section is submitted in a calendar year after the year the application is submitted for the federal tax credit.

(C) (i) For a project that receives a preliminary reservation of the state low-income housing tax credit, allowed pursuant to subdivision (a), on or after January 1, 2009, the credit shall be allocated to the partners of a partnership owning the project in accordance with the partnership agreement,
regardless of how the federal low-income housing tax credit with respect to the project is allocated to the partners, or whether the allocation of the credit under the terms of the agreement has substantial economic effect, within the meaning of Section 704(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to determination of distributive share.

(ii) To the extent the allocation of the credit to a partner under this section lacks substantial economic effect, any loss or deduction otherwise allowable under this part that is attributable to the sale or other disposition of that partner’s partnership interest made prior to the expiration of the federal credit shall not be allowed in the taxable year in which the sale or other disposition occurs, but shall instead be deferred until and treated as if it occurred in the first taxable year immediately following the taxable year in which the federal credit period expires for the project described in clause
(i).

(iii) This subparagraph shall not apply to a project that receives a preliminary reservation of state low-income housing tax credits under the set-aside described in subdivision (c) of Section 50199.20 of the Health and Safety Code unless the project also receives a preliminary reservation of federal low-income housing tax credits.

(2) (A) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall certify to the housing sponsor the amount of tax credit under this section allocated to the housing sponsor for each credit period.

(B) In the case of a partnership or an “S” corporation, the housing sponsor shall provide a copy of the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee certification to the taxpayer.

(C) (i) A
taxpayer shall be eligible to claim the credit commencing in the taxable year the building is placed in service and the federal credit period commences, notwithstanding that the certification pursuant to subparagraph (A) has not been issued by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, provided that the housing sponsor has filed a taxpayer certification with the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and delivered a copy to the taxpayer. The amount of credit claimed by the taxpayer shall not exceed the pro rata share with respect to the amount of credit that the taxpayer purchased or is allocated per the partnership agreement, as applicable, of the lesser of either of the following:

(I) The applicable percentages for each of the four credit years, as specified in subdivision (c), multiplied by the qualified basis of the building set forth in the preliminary reservation.

(II) The amount of credit the project is eligible for as stated in the taxpayer certification.

(ii) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may, but is not required to, review the taxpayer certification and other information provided by the housing sponsor to confirm both of the following:

(I) The calculations set forth in the taxpayer certification.

(II) The amount of credits allocated to the project is consistent with applicable California Tax Credit Allocation Committee rules and regulations for the purposes of making the certification required pursuant to subparagraph (A).

(iii) If the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee issues a certification pursuant to subparagraph (A) that is inconsistent with the taxpayer certification
upon which a credit has been claimed, the taxpayer shall amend any previously filed tax returns to reflect the credit amount certified by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee pursuant to subparagraph (A).

(iv) For purposes of this subparagraph, “taxpayer certification” means a certified statement from the certified public accountant of the housing sponsor. The taxpayer certification shall contain the amount of the credit the project is eligible for, the taxable year the building is placed in service, and the taxable year in which the federal credit period for the building has commenced.

(v) The taxpayer shall, upon request, provide a copy of the taxpayer certification pursuant to clause (iv) or the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee’s certification pursuant to subparagraph (A), as applicable, to the Franchise Tax Board.

(vi) In the case of a failure to provide a copy of the taxpayer certification pursuant to clause (iv) or the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee’s certification pursuant to subparagraph (A), if the Franchise Tax Board so requires, no credit under this section shall be allowed for that taxable year until a copy of that certification is provided.

(vii) The changes made to this subparagraph by the act adding this clause shall apply for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2023.

(D) All elections made by the taxpayer pursuant to Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, shall apply to this section.

(E) (i) Except as described in clause (ii) or (iii), for buildings located in designated
difficult development areas (DDAs) or qualified census tracts (QCTs), as defined in Section 42(d)(5)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to increase in credit for buildings in high-cost areas, credits may be allocated under this section in the amounts prescribed in subdivision (c), provided that the amount of credit allocated under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, is computed on 100 percent of the qualified basis of the building.

(ii) Notwithstanding clause (i), the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate the credit for buildings designated under Section 42(d)(5)(B)(v) of the Internal Revenue Code that are restricted to having 50 percent of the building’s
occupants be special needs households, as defined in the California Code of Regulations by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, provided that the credit allowed under this section shall not exceed 30 percent of the eligible basis of the building.

(iii) On and after January 1, 2018, notwithstanding clause (i), the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate the credit pursuant to paragraph (7) of subdivision (c) or subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (g), even
if the taxpayer receives federal credits, pursuant to Section 42(d)(5)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to increase in credit for buildings in high-cost areas.

(F) (i) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate a credit under this section in exchange for a credit allocated pursuant to Section 42(d)(5)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to increase in credit for buildings in high-cost areas, in amounts up to 30 percent of the eligible basis of a building if the credits allowed under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, are reduced by an equivalent amount.

(ii) An equivalent amount shall be determined by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee based upon the relative amount required to produce an equivalent state tax credit to the taxpayer.

(c) Section 42(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to applicable percentage: 70 percent present value credit for certain new buildings; 30 percent present value credit for certain other buildings, shall be modified as follows:

(1) In the case of any qualified low-income building placed in service by the housing sponsor during 1987, the term “applicable percentage” means 9 percent for each of the first three years and 3 percent for the fourth year for new buildings (whether or not the building is federally subsidized) and for existing buildings.

(2) In the case of any qualified low-income building that receives an allocation after 1989 and is a new building not federally subsidized, the term “applicable percentage” means
for each of the first three years, 9 percent of the qualified basis of the building, and for the fourth year, 3 percent of the qualified basis of the building.

(3) In the case of any qualified low-income building that is a new building and is federally subsidized and receiving an allocation pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (g), the term “applicable percentage” means for each of the first three years, 9 percent of the qualified basis of the building, and for the
fourth year, 3 percent of the qualified basis of the building.

(4) In the case of any qualified low-income building that receives an allocation after 1989 pursuant to subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (g) and that is a new building that is federally subsidized or that is an existing building that is “at risk of conversion,” the term “applicable percentage” means for each of the first three years, 4 percent of the qualified basis of the building, and for the fourth year, 1 percent of the qualified basis of the building.

(5) In the case of any qualified low-income building that meets all of the requirements of subparagraphs (A) through (D), inclusive, the term “applicable percentage” means 30 percent for each of the first three years and 5 percent for the fourth year. A qualified low-income building receiving an allocation under this paragraph is ineligible to also receive an allocation under paragraph (3).

(A) The qualified low-income building is at least 15 years old.

(B) The qualified low-income building is either:

(i) Serving households of very low income or extremely low income such that the average maximum household income as restricted, pursuant to an existing regulatory agreement with a federal, state, county, local, or other governmental agency, is not more than
45 percent of the area median gross income, as determined under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, adjusted by household size, and a tax credit regulatory agreement is entered into for a period of not less than 55 years restricting the average targeted household income to no more than 45 percent of the area median income.

(ii) Financed under Section 514, or 521 of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. Sec. 1485).

(C) The qualified low-income building would have insufficient credits under paragraphs (2) and (3) to complete substantial rehabilitation due to a low appraised value.

(D) The qualified low-income building will complete the substantial rehabilitation in connection with the
credit allocation herein.

(6) For purposes of this section, the term “at risk of conversion,” with respect to an existing property, means a property that satisfies all of the following criteria:

(A) The property is a multifamily rental housing development in which at least 50 percent of the units receive governmental assistance pursuant to any of the following:

(i) New construction, substantial rehabilitation, moderate rehabilitation, property disposition, and loan management set-aside programs, or any other program providing project-based assistance pursuant to Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, Section 1437f of Title 42 of the United States Code, as amended.

(ii) The Below-Market-Interest-Rate Program pursuant to Section 221(d)(3) of
the National Housing Act, Sections 1715l(d)(3) and (5) of Title 12 of the United States Code.

(iii) Section 236 of the National Housing Act, Section 1715z-1 of Title 12 of the United States Code.

(iv) Programs for rent supplement assistance pursuant to Section 101 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965, Section 1701s of Title 12 of the United States Code, as amended.

(v) Programs under Sections 514, 515, 516, 533, and 538 of the Housing Act of 1949 (Public Law 81-171), as amended.

(vi) The low-income housing credit program set forth in Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, this section, and Sections 12206 and 17058.

(vii) Programs
for loans or grants administered by the Department of Housing and Community Development.

(viii) Section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. Sec. 1701q), as amended.

(ix) Section 142(d) of the Internal Revenue Code or its predecessors.

(x) Section 147 of the Internal Revenue Code, as enacted by the Tax Reform Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-514), or as subsequently amended, including as amended by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-97) and all amendments enacted prior to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-97).

(xi) Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended.

(xii) Title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing
Act, as amended.

(xiii) Titles IV and V of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act of 1987, as amended, including the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Supportive Housing Program, Shelter Plus Care Program, and surplus federal property disposition program.

(xiv) The following assistance provided by counties and cities in exchange for restrictions on the maximum rents that may be charged for units within a multifamily rental housing development and on the maximum tenant income as a condition of eligibility for occupancy of the unit subject to the rent restriction, as reflected by a recorded agreement with a county or city:

(I) Loans or grants provided using tax increment financing pursuant to the Community Redevelopment Law (Part 1 (commencing with Section
33000) of Division 24 of the Health and Safety Code).

(II) Local housing trust funds, as referred to in Section 50843 of the Health and Safety Code.

(III) The sale or lease of public property at or below market rates.

(IV) The granting of density bonuses, or concessions or incentives, including fee waivers, parking variances, or amendments to general plans, zoning, or redevelopment project area plans, pursuant to Chapter 4.3 (commencing with Section 65915) of Division 1 of Title 7 of the Government Code.

(B) As used in subparagraph (A), “government assistance” shall not include the use of tenant-based housing choice vouchers under subsection (o) of Section 1437f of Title 42 of the United States Code, excluding paragraph (13) relating to project-based
assistance. Restrictions shall not include any rent control or rent stabilization ordinance imposed by a county or city.

(C) If the development is subject to restrictions on rent and income levels, 50 percent of the units are also restricted to initial occupancy by lower income households, as defined in Section 50079.5 of the Health and Safety Code.

(D) The restrictions on rent and income levels, excluding any restrictions recorded pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (e) of Section 65863.11 or Section 65863.13 of the Government Code or in connection with interim or acquisition financing, will terminate or the federally insured mortgage or rent subsidy contract on the property is eligible for prepayment or termination any time within five years before or after the date of application to the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee.

(E) The entity acquiring the property enters into a regulatory agreement that requires the property to be operated in accordance with the requirements of Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code and any further requirements added by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee to implement the low-income housing tax credit established by Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. Sec. 42), this section, and Sections 12206 and 17058 pursuant to Chapter 3.6 (commencing with Section 50199.4) of Part 1 of Division 31 of the Health and Safety Code.

(F) The property satisfies the requirements of Section 42(e) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to rehabilitation expenditures treated as separate new building, except that the provisions of Section 42(e)(3)(A)(ii)(I) shall not apply.

(7) On and after January 1, 2018, in
the case of any qualified low-income building that is (A) farmworker housing, as defined by paragraph (2) of subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code, and (B) is federally subsidized, the term “applicable percentage” means for each of the first three years, 20 percent of the qualified basis of the building, and for the fourth year, 15 percent of the qualified basis of the building.

(d) The term “qualified low-income housing project” as defined in Section 42(c)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to qualified low-income building, is modified by adding the following requirements:

(1) The taxpayer shall be entitled to receive a cash distribution from the operations of the project, after funding required reserves, that, at the election of the taxpayer, is equal to:

(A) An amount not to
exceed 8 percent of the lesser of:

(i) The owner equity, which shall include the amount of the capital contributions actually paid to the housing sponsor and shall not include any amounts until they are paid on an investor note.

(ii) Twenty percent of the adjusted basis of the building as of the close of the first taxable year of the credit period.

(B) The amount of the cashflow from those units in the building that are not low-income units. For purposes of computing cashflow under this subparagraph, operating costs shall be allocated to the low-income units using the “floor space fraction,” as defined in Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit.

(C) Any amount allowed to be distributed under subparagraph (A) that
is not available for distribution during the first 5 years of the compliance period may be accumulated and distributed any time during the first 15 years of the compliance period but not thereafter.

(2) The limitation on return shall apply in the aggregate to the partners if the housing sponsor is a partnership and in the aggregate to the shareholders if the housing sponsor is an “S” corporation.

(3) The housing sponsor shall apply any cash available for distribution in excess of the amount eligible to be distributed under paragraph (1) to reduce the rent on rent-restricted units or to increase the number of rent-restricted units subject to the tests of Section 42(g)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to in general.

(e) The provisions of Section 42(f) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to definition and
special rules relating to credit period, shall be modified as follows:

(1) The term “credit period” as defined in Section 42(f)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to credit period defined, is modified by substituting “four taxable years” for “10 taxable years.”

(2) The special rule for the first taxable year of the credit period under Section 42(f)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to special rule for 1st year of credit period, shall not apply to the tax credit under this section.

(3) Section 42(f)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to determination of applicable percentage with respect to increases in qualified basis after 1st year of credit period, is modified to read:

If, as of the close of any taxable year in the compliance period, after the first
year of the credit period, the qualified basis of any building exceeds the qualified basis of that building as of the close of the first year of the credit period, the housing sponsor, to the extent of its tax credit allocation, shall be eligible for a credit on the excess in an amount equal to the applicable percentage determined pursuant to subdivision (c) for the four-year period beginning with the later of the taxable years in which the increase in qualified basis occurs.

(f) The provisions of Section 42(h) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to limitation on aggregate credit allowable with respect to projects located in a state, shall be modified as follows:

(1) Section 42(h)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to allocated credit amount to apply to all taxable years ending during or after credit allocation year, does not apply and instead the following provisions
apply:

The total amount for the four-year credit period of the housing credit dollars allocated in a calendar year to any building shall reduce the aggregate housing credit dollar amount of the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee for the calendar year in which the allocation is made.

(2) Paragraphs (3), (4), (5), (6)(E)(i)(II), (6)(F), (6)(G), (6)(I), (7), and (8) of Section 42(h) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to limitation on aggregate credit allowable with respect to projects located in a state, do not apply to this section.

(g) The aggregate housing credit dollar amount that may be allocated annually by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee pursuant to this section, Section 12206, and Section 17058 shall be an amount equal to the sum of all the following:

(1) (A) Seventy million dollars ($70,000,000) for the 2001 calendar year, and, for the 2002 calendar year and each calendar year thereafter, seventy million dollars ($70,000,000) increased by the percentage, if any, by which the Consumer Price Index for the preceding calendar year exceeds the Consumer Price Index for the 2001 calendar year. For the purposes of this paragraph, the term “Consumer Price Index” means the last Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers published by the United States Department of Labor.

(B) Five hundred million dollars ($500,000,000) for the 2020 calendar year, and up to five hundred million dollars ($500,000,000) for the 2021 calendar year and every year thereafter. Allocations
shall only be available pursuant to this subparagraph in the 2021 calendar year and thereafter if the annual Budget Act, or if any bill providing for appropriations related to the Budget Act, specifies an amount to be available for allocation in that calendar year by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, and after the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee have adopted increasing production and containing regulations, rules, or guidelines to align the programs of both committees with the objective of increasing production and containing costs as described in clause (iii). The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall accept applications for the 2021 calendar year not sooner than 30 days after these regulations, rules, or guidelines have been adopted. The California Debt Limit Allocation Committee shall not accept applications for the 2021 calendar year for bond allocations for an eligible project under this section prior to issuing,
reviewing, and publishing a new tax-exempt private activity bond demand survey. Except as provided in clause (vi), a housing sponsor receiving a nonfederally subsidized allocation under subdivision (c) shall not be eligible for receipt of the housing credit allocated from the increased amount under this subparagraph. A housing sponsor receiving a nonfederally subsidized allocation under subdivision (c) shall remain eligible for receipt of the housing credit allocated from the credit ceiling amount under subparagraph (A).

(i) Eligible projects for allocations under this subparagraph include any new building, as defined in Section 42(i)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to newly constructed buildings, and the regulations promulgated thereunder, excluding rehabilitation expenditures under Section 42(e) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to rehabilitation expenditures treated as separate new building, and is federally subsidized.
Eligible projects for allocations under this subparagraph also include any retrofitting and repurposing of existing nonresidential structures, including, but not limited to, hotels and motels, that were converted to residential use within the previous five years from the date of the application.

(ii) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, for allocations pursuant to this subparagraph for the 2020 calendar year, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall consider projects located throughout the state and shall allocate housing credits, subject to the minimum federal requirements as set forth in Sections 42 and 142 of the Internal Revenue Code, the minimum requirements set forth in Sections 5033 and 5190 of the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee regulations, and the minimum set forth in Section 10326 of the
California Tax Credit Allocation Committee regulations, for projects that can begin construction within 180 days from award, subject to availability of funds.

(iii) (I) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, for allocations pursuant to this subparagraph for the 2021 calendar year and thereafter, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee shall develop and prescribe regulations, rules, or guidelines, necessary to implement a new allocation methodology that is aimed at increasing production and containing costs, which would include a scoring system that maximizes the efficient use of public subsidy and benefit created through the private activity bond and low-income housing tax credit programs. The factors for determining the efficient use of public subsidy and benefit shall include, but not be limited to, all of
the following:

(ia) The number and size of units developed including local incentives provided to increase density.

(ib) The proximity to amenities, jobs, and public transportation.

(ic) The location of the development.

(id) The delivery of housing affordable to very low and extremely low income households by the development.

(II) The efficient use of public subsidy and benefit criteria specified in this clause shall take into account the total state subsidy provided and prioritize cost containment and increased unit production. These regulations, rules, or guidelines developed pursuant to this subparagraph shall also consider updated definitions for at-risk preservation and new
construction.

(III) For bond allocations for the 2021 calendar year to projects eligible for an allocation under this subparagraph, the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee may adopt emergency regulations.

(IV) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall consider amending the regulations establishing a scoring system, as required by this clause, to also grant, for farmworker housing as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code, maximum points to farmworker housing projects under the housing needs category, and an initial five points in the category for site amenities beyond those required as additional thresholds.

(V) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall consider amending
the regulations establishing a scoring system, as required by this clause, to establish a housing type for farmworker housing projects. For the purpose of assigning points based on the proximity of amenities to an eligible farmworker housing project, the committee shall consider using the same point allocations as provided for rural set-aside projects.

(iv) Of the amount available pursuant to this subparagraph, and notwithstanding any other requirement of this section, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate up to two hundred million dollars ($200,000,000) for housing financed by the California Housing Finance Agency under its Mixed-Income Program.

(v) (I) For the calendar years of 2024 to 2034, inclusive, of the amount available pursuant to this subparagraph, the lesser of 5 percent
of that amount or twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000) per calendar year shall be set aside for projects to provide farmworker housing, as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code, and administered consistent with the credits available pursuant to paragraph (4).

(II) Any credits pursuant to this clause that remain unallocated following the conclusion of a funding round shall roll over to consecutive subsequent funding rounds in that calendar year with the exception that any credits that remain unallocated after the final funding round in that calendar year shall be added back to the aggregate amount of credits that may be allocated pursuant to this subparagraph.

(III) For the 2035 calendar year, and every year thereafter, of the amount available pursuant to this subparagraph, a portion of the amount allocated shall be set aside for projects
to provide farmworker housing, as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code. The amount set aside shall be determined by the Legislature upon consideration of the comprehensive strategy, or most recent update thereof, provided by the Department of Housing and Community Development pursuant to subdivision (c) of Section 50408.5 of the Health and Safety Code.

(vi) (I) For any calendar year in which the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee has declared a competition for the award of tax-exempt bond authority for qualified residential rental projects, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate some or all of the credits allocated under this subparagraph, except for any credits allocated for housing financed by the California Housing Finance Agency under its Mixed-Income Program, for nonfederally subsidized buildings eligible for credits under Section 42 of the Internal
Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, and shall allocate the remainder of these credits for new buildings, as defined in Section 42(i)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to new buildings, that are federally subsidized and that can begin construction within a reasonable time, as determined by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee.

(II) For any calendar year in which the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee has not declared a competition for the award of tax-exempt bond authority for qualified residential rental projects, projects receiving an award of credits pursuant to this subparagraph shall begin construction within a reasonable time, as determined by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee.

(III) Notwithstanding subclauses (I) and (II), if credits available under this subparagraph remain unallocated after the final California Debt
Limit Allocation Committee round for qualified residential rental projects in a given calendar year, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may allocate some or all of the remaining credits for nonfederally subsidized buildings eligible for credits under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit.

(2) The unused housing credit ceiling, if any, for the preceding calendar years.

(3) The amount of housing credit ceiling returned in the calendar year. For purposes of this paragraph, the amount of housing credit dollar amount returned in the calendar year equals the housing credit dollar amount previously allocated to any project that does not become a qualified low-income housing project within the period required by this section or to any project with respect to which an allocation is canceled by mutual consent of the California Tax Credit
Allocation Committee and the allocation recipient.

(4) Five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) per calendar year for projects to provide farmworker housing, as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code.

(5) The amount of any unallocated or returned credits under former Sections 17053.14, 23608.2, and 23608.3, as those sections read prior to January 1, 2009, until fully exhausted for projects to provide farmworker housing, as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 50199.7 of the Health and Safety Code.

(6) No amount shall be provided for projects to provide farmworker housing used to comply with the requirement under Section 1188(c)(4) of Title 8 of the United States Code to furnish housing to H-2A
workers.

(h) The term “compliance period” as defined in Section 42(i)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to compliance period, is modified to mean, with respect to any building, the period of 30 consecutive taxable years beginning with the first taxable year of the credit period with respect thereto.

(i) Section 42(j) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to recapture of credit, shall not be applicable and the following shall be substituted in its place:

The requirements of this section shall be set forth in a regulatory agreement between the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and the housing sponsor, and the regulatory agreement shall be subordinated, when required, to any lien or encumbrance of any banks or other institutional lenders to the project. The regulatory
agreement entered into pursuant to subdivision (f) of Section 50199.14 of the Health and Safety Code shall apply, provided that the agreement includes all of the following provisions:

(1) A term not less than the compliance period.

(2) A requirement that the agreement be recorded in the official records of the county in which the qualified low-income housing project is located.

(3) A provision stating which state and local agencies can enforce the regulatory agreement in the event the housing sponsor fails to satisfy any of the requirements of this section.

(4) A provision that the regulatory agreement shall be deemed a contract enforceable by tenants as third-party beneficiaries thereto and that allows individuals, whether prospective, present, or
former occupants of the building, who meet the income limitation applicable to the building, the right to enforce the regulatory agreement in any state court.

(5) A provision incorporating the requirements of Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, as modified by this section.

(6) A requirement that the housing sponsor notify the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee or its designee if there is a determination by the Internal Revenue Service that the project is not in compliance with Section 42(g) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to qualified low-income housing project.

(7) A requirement that the housing sponsor, as security for the performance of the housing sponsor’s obligations under the regulatory agreement, assign the housing sponsor’s interest in rents that it
receives from the project, provided that until there is a default under the regulatory agreement, the housing sponsor is entitled to collect and retain the rents.

(8) A provision that the remedies available in the event of a default under the regulatory agreement that is not cured within a reasonable cure period include, but are not limited to, allowing any of the parties designated to enforce the regulatory agreement to collect all rents with respect to the project; taking possession of the project and operating the project in accordance with the regulatory agreement until the enforcer determines the housing sponsor is in a position to operate the project in accordance with the regulatory agreement; applying to any court for specific performance; securing the appointment of a receiver to operate the project; or any other relief as may be appropriate.

(j) (1) The committee shall allocate the housing credit on a regular basis consisting of two or more periods in each calendar year during which applications may be filed and considered. The committee shall establish application filing deadlines, the maximum percentage of federal and state low-income housing tax credit ceiling that may be allocated by the committee in that period, and the approximate date on which allocations shall be made. If the enactment of federal or state law, the adoption of rules or regulations, or other similar events prevent the use of two allocation periods, the committee may reduce the number of periods and adjust the filing deadlines, maximum percentage of credit allocated, and allocation dates.

(2) The committee shall adopt a qualified allocation plan, as provided in Section 42(m)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to plans for allocation of credit among projects. In adopting this plan, the committee
shall comply with the provisions of Sections 42(m)(1)(B) and 42(m)(1)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to qualified allocation plan and relating to certain selection criteria must be used, respectively.

(3) Notwithstanding Section 42(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to responsibilities of housing credit agencies, the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall allocate housing credits in accordance with the qualified allocation plan and regulations, which shall include the following provisions:

(A) All housing sponsors, as defined by paragraph (3) of subdivision (a), shall demonstrate at the time the application is filed with the committee that the project meets the following threshold requirements:

(i) The housing sponsor shall demonstrate there is a need and demand for low-income housing in
the community or region for which it is proposed.

(ii) The project’s proposed financing, including tax credit proceeds, shall be sufficient to complete the project and that the proposed operating income shall be adequate to operate the project for the extended use period.

(iii) The project shall have enforceable financing commitments, either construction or permanent financing, for at least 50 percent of the total estimated financing of the project.

(iv) The housing sponsor shall have and maintain control of the site for the project.

(v) The housing sponsor shall demonstrate that the project complies with all applicable local land use and zoning ordinances.

(vi) The housing sponsor shall
demonstrate that the project development team has the experience and the financial capacity to ensure project completion and operation for the extended use period.

(vii) The housing sponsor shall demonstrate the amount of tax credit that is necessary for the financial feasibility of the project and its viability as a qualified low-income housing project throughout the extended use period, taking into account operating expenses, a supportable debt service, reserves, funds set aside for rental subsidies and required equity, and a development fee that does not exceed a specified percentage of the eligible basis of the project prior to inclusion of the development fee in the eligible basis, as determined by the committee.

(B) The committee shall give a preference to those projects satisfying all of the threshold requirements of subparagraph (A) if both of the following apply:

(i) The project serves the lowest income tenants at rents affordable to those tenants.

(ii) The project is obligated to serve qualified tenants for the longest period.

(C) In addition to the provisions of subparagraphs (A) and (B), the committee shall use the following criteria in allocating housing credits:

(i) Projects serving large families in which a substantial number, as defined by the committee, of all residential units are low-income units with three or more bedrooms.

(ii) Projects providing single-room occupancy units serving very low income tenants.

(iii) Existing projects that are “at risk of conversion,” as defined
by paragraph (6) of subdivision (c).

(iv) Projects for which a public agency provides direct or indirect long-term financial support for at least 15 percent of the total project development costs or projects for which the owner’s equity constitutes at least 30 percent of the total project development costs.

(v) Projects that provide tenant amenities not generally available to residents of low-income housing projects.

(D) Subparagraph (B) and (C) shall not apply to projects receiving an allocation pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (g).

(4) For purposes of allocating credits pursuant to this section, the committee shall not give preference to any project by virtue of the date of submission of its application except to break a
tie when two or more of the projects have an equal rating.

(5) Not less than 20 percent of the low-income housing tax credits available annually under this section, Section 12206, and Section 17058 shall be set aside for allocation to rural areas as defined in Section 50199.21 of the Health and Safety Code. Any amount of credit set aside for rural areas remaining on or after October 31 of any calendar year shall be available for allocation to any eligible project. No amount of credit set aside for rural areas shall be considered available for any eligible project so long as there are eligible rural applications pending on October 31.

(k) Section 42(l) of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to certifications and other reports to secretary, shall be modified as follows:

The term “secretary” shall be replaced by the term “Franchise
Tax Board.”

(l) In the case in which the credit allowed under this section exceeds the “tax,” the excess may be carried over to reduce the “tax” in the following year, and succeeding years, if necessary, until the credit has been exhausted.

(m) A project that received an allocation of a 1989 federal housing credit dollar amount shall be eligible to receive an allocation of a 1990 state housing credit dollar amount, subject to all of the following conditions:

(1) The project was not placed in service prior to 1990.

(2) To the extent the amendments made to this section by the Statutes of 1990 conflict with any provisions existing in this section prior to those amendments, the prior provisions of law shall prevail.

(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (2), a project applying for an allocation under this subdivision shall be subject to the requirements of paragraph (3) of subdivision (j).

(n) The credit period with respect to an allocation of credit in 1989 by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee of which any amount is attributable to unallocated credit from 1987 or 1988 shall not begin until after December 31, 1989.

(o) The provisions of Section 11407(a) of Public Law 101-508, relating to the effective date of the extension of the low-income housing credit, apply to calendar years after 1989.

(p) The provisions of Section 11407(c) of Public Law 101-508, relating to election to accelerate credit, shall not apply.

(q) (1) A corporation may elect to assign any portion of any credit allowed under this section to one or more affiliated corporations for each taxable year in which the credit is allowed. For purposes of this subdivision, “affiliated corporation” has the meaning provided in subdivision (b) of Section 25110, as that section was amended by Chapter 881 of the Statutes of 1993, as of the last day of the taxable year in which the credit is allowed, except that “100 percent” is substituted for “more than 50 percent” wherever it appears in the section, as that section was amended by Chapter 881 of the Statutes of 1993, and “voting common stock” is substituted for “voting stock” wherever it appears in the section, as that section was amended by Chapter 881 of the Statutes of 1993.

(2) The election provided in paragraph (1):

(A) May be based on any method
selected by the corporation that originally receives the credit.

(B) Shall be irrevocable for the taxable year the credit is allowed, once made.

(C) May be changed for any subsequent taxable year if the election to make the assignment is expressly shown on each of the returns of the affiliated corporations that assign and receive the credits.

(r) (1) (A) For a project that receives a preliminary reservation under this section beginning on or after January 1, 2016, a taxpayer may elect, in the manner prescribed by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, to sell all or any portion of any credit allowed, subject to subparagraph (B). The taxpayer may make the election to sell pursuant to this subdivision at any time before the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee
allocates a final credit amount for the project pursuant to this section, at which point the election shall become irrevocable.

(B) A credit that a taxpayer elects to sell all or a portion of pursuant to this subdivision shall be sold for consideration that is not less than 80 percent of the amount of the credit.

(2) (A) The taxpayer that originally received the credit shall report to the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee within 10 days of the sale of the credit, in the form and manner specified by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, all required information regarding the purchase and sale of the credit, including the social security or other taxpayer identification number of the unrelated party or parties to whom the credit has been sold, the face amount of the credit sold, and the amount of consideration received by the taxpayer for the
sale of the credit.

(B) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee shall provide an annual listing to the Franchise Tax Board, in a form and manner agreed upon by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and the Franchise Tax Board, of the taxpayers that have sold or purchased a credit pursuant to this subdivision.

(3) A credit may be sold pursuant to this subdivision to more than one unrelated party.

(4) Notwithstanding any other law, the taxpayer that originally received the credit that is sold pursuant to paragraph (1) shall remain solely liable for all obligations and liabilities imposed on the taxpayer by this section with respect to the credit, none of which shall apply to a party to whom the credit has been sold or subsequently transferred. Parties that purchase credits pursuant to paragraph (1)
shall be entitled to utilize the purchased credits in the same manner in which the taxpayer that originally received the credit could utilize them.

(5) A taxpayer shall not sell a credit allowed by this section if the taxpayer was allowed the credit on any tax return of the taxpayer.

(s) The California Tax Credit Allocation Committee may prescribe rules, guidelines, or procedures necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this section, including any guidelines regarding the allocation of the credit allowed under this section. Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code shall not apply to any rule, guideline, or procedure prescribed by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee pursuant to this section.

(t) Any unused credit may continue to be
carried forward, as provided in subdivision (l), until the credit has been exhausted.

(u) This section shall remain in effect on and after December 1, 1990, for as long as Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to low-income housing credit, remains in effect.

(v) The amendments to this section made by Chapter 1222 of the Statutes of 1993 shall apply only to taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 1994, except that paragraph (1) of subdivision (q), as amended, shall apply to taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 1993.

SEC. 15.
(a) Section 2.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section 65589.5 of the Government Code proposed by both this bill and Assembly Bill 1621. That section of this bill shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and become effective on or before January 1, 2027, (2) each bill amends Section 65589.5 of the Government Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after Assembly Bill 1621, in which case Section 2 of this bill shall not become operative.

(b) Section 12.5 of
this bill incorporates amendments to Section 12206 of the Revenue and Taxation Code proposed by this bill and Assembly Bill 2270. That section of this bill shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and become effective on or before January 1, 2027, (2) each bill amends Section 12206 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after Assembly Bill 2270, in which case Section 12206 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, as amended by Assembly Bill 2270, shall remain operative only until the operative date of this bill, at which time Section 12.5 of this bill shall become operative, and Section 12 of this bill shall not become operative.

(c) Section 13.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section 17058 of the Revenue and Taxation Code proposed by this bill and Assembly Bill 2270. That section of this bill shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and become effective
on or before January 1, 2027, (2) each bill amends Section 17058 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after Assembly Bill 2270, in which case Section 17058 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, as amended by Assembly Bill 2270, shall remain operative only until the operative date of this bill, at which time Section 13.5 of this bill shall become operative, and Section 13 of this bill shall not become operative.

(d) Section 14.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section 23610.5 of the Revenue and Taxation Code proposed by this bill and Assembly Bill 2270. That section of this bill shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and become effective on or before January 1, 2027, (2) each bill amends Section 23610.5 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and (3) this bill is
enacted after Assembly Bill 2270, in which case Section 23610.5 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, as amended by Assembly Bill 2270, shall remain operative only until the operative date of this bill, at which time Section 14.5 of this bill shall become operative, and Section 14 of this bill shall not become operative.

SEC. 16.
No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because a local agency or school district has the authority to levy service charges, fees, or assessments sufficient to pay for the program or level of service mandated by this act, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code.
