SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._estates,_powers_&_trusts_law_section_13-3.3
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/EPT/13-3.3 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Estates, Powers & Trusts Law Section 13-3.3

Designation of trustee to receive proceeds of thrift, savings,

§ 13-3.3 Designation of trustee to receive proceeds of thrift, savings, pension, retirement, death benefit, stock bonus and profit-sharing plans, systems or trusts, of life, group life, industrial life or accident and health insurance policies and of annuity, endowment and supplemental insurance contracts, and taxation thereof (a) The proceeds of thrift, savings, pension, retirement, death benefit, stock bonus and profit-sharing plans, systems or trusts, of life, group life, industrial life or accident and health insurance policies and of annuity, endowment and supplemental insurance contracts (hereinafter referred to as “proceeds”) may be made payable to a trustee designated as beneficiary in the manner prescribed by this section and named as:

(1)
Trustee under a trust agreement or declaration of trust in existence at the date of such designation, and identified in such designation, and such proceeds shall be paid to such trustee and be held and disposed of in accordance with the terms of such trust agreement or declaration of trust, including any amendments thereto, as they appear in writing on the date of the death of the insured, employee or participant. It shall not be necessary to the validity of any such trust agreement or declaration of trust that it have a trust corpus other than the right of the trustee as beneficiary to receive such proceeds.

(2)
Trustee of a trust to be established by will, and upon qualification and issuance of letters of trusteeship such proceeds shall be payable to the trustee to be held and disposed of in accordance with the terms of such will as a testamentary trust. A designation which in substance names as such beneficiary the trustee under the will of the insured, employee or participant, shall be taken to refer to the will of such person actually admitted to probate, whether executed before or after the making of such designation.

(b)
If no qualified trustee claims such proceeds from the insurer or other payor within eighteen months after the death of the insured, employee or participant, or if satisfactory evidence is furnished to the insurer or other payor within such period showing that there is or will be no trustee to receive such proceeds, such proceeds shall be paid by the insurer or other payor to the personal representative or assigns of the insured, employee or participant, unless otherwise provided by agreement with the insurer or other payor during the lifetime of the insured, employee or participant.

(c)
Except to the extent otherwise provided by the trust agreement, declaration of trust or will, proceeds received by the trustee shall not be subject to the debts of the insured, employee or participant, to any greater extent than if such proceeds were payable to the beneficiaries named in the trust, and for all purposes including transfer or estate tax purposes they shall not be deemed payable to or for the benefit of the estate of the insured, employee or participant.

(d)
Proceeds so held in trust may be commingled with any other assets which may properly become part of such trust.

(e)
Nothing in this section shall effect the validity of any designation heretofore made of the trustee of any trust established under a trust agreement or declaration of trust or by will.

(f)
This section shall be construed as declaring the law as it existed prior to its enactment and not as modifying it.

Source:
Section 13-3.3 — Designation of trustee to receive proceeds of thrift, savings,, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/EPT/13-3.3 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
