SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._general_obligations_law_section_15-108
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GOB/15-108 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

General Obligations Law Section 15-108

Release or covenant not to sue

(a)
Effect of release of or covenant not to sue tortfeasors. When a release or a covenant not to sue or not to enforce a judgment is given to one of two or more persons liable or claimed to be liable in tort for the same injury, or the same wrongful death, it does not discharge any of the other tortfeasors from liability for the injury or wrongful death unless its terms expressly so provide, but it reduces the claim of the releasor against the other tortfeasors to the extent of any amount stipulated by the release or the covenant, or in the amount of the consideration paid for it, or in the amount of the released tortfeasor’s equitable share of the damages under article fourteen of the civil practice law and rules, whichever is the greatest.

(b)
Release of tortfeasor. A release given in good faith by the injured person to one tortfeasor as provided in subdivision (a) relieves him from liability to any other person for contribution as provided in article fourteen of the civil practice law and rules.

(c)
Waiver of contribution. A tortfeasor who has obtained his own release from liability shall not be entitled to contribution from any other person.

(d)
Releases and covenants within the scope of this section. A release or a covenant not to sue between a plaintiff or claimant and a person who is liable or claimed to be liable in tort shall be deemed a release or covenant for the purposes of this section only if:

(1)
the plaintiff or claimant receives, as part of the agreement, monetary consideration greater than one dollar;

(2)
the release or covenant completely or substantially terminates the dispute between the plaintiff or claimant and the person who was claimed to be liable; and

(3)
such release or covenant is provided prior to entry of judgment.

Source:
Section 15-108 — Release or covenant not to sue, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GOB/15-108 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
