SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._general_obligations_law_section_3-503
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GOB/3-503 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

General Obligations Law Section 3-503

Required information and statement in applications for licenses to conduct occupations

fulfillment of child support obligations

1.
As used in this section:

a.
“Agency” means the legal authority or entity responsible for determining whether or not a license shall be issued or renewed.

b.
“Application” means the form or statements required to be completed or supplied in order to obtain a license.

c.
“License” means any certificate, license, permit or grant of permission required by the laws of this state, its political subdivisions or instrumentalities as a condition for the lawful practice of any occupation, employment, trade, vocation, business, or profession, and shall also include any registration required by law or agency regulation as a condition for such lawful practice.

2.
Every applicant for a license or renewal thereof shall provide his or her social security number on the application. Additionally, every applicant for a license or renewal thereof shall certify in the application in a written statement under oath, duly sworn and subscribed, that as of the date the application is filed he or she is (or is not) under obligation to pay child support and that if he or she is under such an obligation, that he or she does (or does not) meet one of the following requirements:

a.
he or she is not four months or more in arrears in the payment of child support; or

b.
he or she is making payments by income execution or by court agreed payment or repayment plan or by plan agreed to by the parties; or

c.
the child support obligation is the subject of a pending court proceeding; or

d.
he or she is receiving public assistance or supplemental security income.

3.
If the applicant is not under an obligation to pay child support, the agency may issue or renew such license. If the applicant is under an obligation to pay child support and is not four months or more in arrears in the payment of child support, or meets the conditions of paragraphs b, c and d of this subdivision, the agency may issue or renew such license. If the applicant does not meet one of the above requirements, the agency may issue or renew such license but such license shall expire in six months unless before that time the applicant submits a written certification under oath, duly sworn and subscribed that he or she:

a.
is no longer in arrears in the payment of child support; or

b.
is making payments by income execution or by court agreed payment or repayment plan or by plan agreed to by the parties or repayment plan with the appropriate support collection unit; or

c.
the child support obligation is the subject of a pending court proceeding; or

d.
he or she is receiving public assistance or supplemental security income. Upon the submission of such certification, the expiration date of such license shall be governed by the agency’s customary practice and no fee, in addition to the initial license application fee, shall be charged unless the six month period has expired.

4.
Every application shall state in bold face that persons who are four months or more in arrears in child support or who have failed to comply with a summons, subpoena or warrant relating to a paternity or child support proceeding may be subject to suspension of their business, professional, drivers and/or recreational licenses and permits including, but not limited to, licences issued pursuant to section 11-0713 of the environmental conservation law.

5.
Every application shall state that the intentional submission of false written statements for the purpose of frustrating or defeating the lawful enforcement of support obligations is punishable pursuant to section 175.35 of the penal law.

Source:
Section 3-503 — Required information and statement in applications for licenses to conduct occupations; fulfillment of child support obligations, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GOB/3-503 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
