SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._general_obligations_law_section_5-1311
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GOB/5-1311 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

General Obligations Law Section 5-1311

Uniform vendor and purchaser risk act

1.
Any contract for the purchase and sale or exchange of realty shall be interpreted, unless the contract expressly provides otherwise, as including an agreement that the parties shall have the following rights and duties:

a.
When neither the legal title nor the possession of the subject matter of the contract has been transferred to the purchaser:

(1)
if all or a material part thereof is destroyed without fault of the purchaser or is taken by eminent domain, the vendor cannot enforce the contract, and the purchaser is entitled to recover any portion of the price that he has paid; but nothing herein contained shall be deemed to deprive the vendor of any right to recover damages against the purchaser for any breach of contract by the purchaser prior to the destruction or taking;

(2)
if an immaterial part thereof is destroyed without fault of the purchaser or is taken by eminent domain, neither the vendor nor the purchaser is thereby deprived of the right to enforce the contract; but there shall be, to the extent of the destruction or taking, an abatement of the purchase price.

b.
When either the legal title or the possession of the subject matter of the contract has been transferred to the purchaser, if all or any part thereof is destroyed without fault of the vendor or is taken by eminent domain, the purchaser is not thereby relieved from a duty to pay the price, nor is he thereby entitled to recover any portion thereof that he has paid; but nothing herein contained shall be deemed to deprive the purchaser of any right to recover damages against the vendor for any breach of contract by the vendor prior to the destruction or taking.

2.
This section shall be so interpreted and construed as to effectuate its general purpose to make uniform the law of those states which enact it.

3.
This section may be cited as the uniform vendor and purchaser risk act.

Source:
Section 5-1311 — Uniform vendor and purchaser risk act, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GOB/5-1311 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
