SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._general_obligations_law_section_5-1501c
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GOB/5-1501C (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

General Obligations Law Section 5-1501C

Powers of attorney excluded from this title

The provisions of this title shall not apply to the following powers of attorney:

1.
a power of attorney given primarily for a business or commercial purpose, including without limitation:

(a)
a power to the extent it is coupled with an interest in the subject of the power;

(b)
a power given to or for the benefit of a creditor in connection with a loan or other credit transaction;

(c)
a power given to facilitate transfer or disposition of one or more specific stocks, bonds or other assets, whether real, personal, tangible or intangible;

2.
a proxy or other delegation to exercise voting rights or management rights with respect to an entity;

3.
a power created on a form prescribed by a government or governmental subdivision, agency or instrumentality for a governmental purpose;

4.
a power authorizing a third party to prepare, execute, deliver, submit and/or file a document or instrument with a government or governmental subdivision, agency or instrumentality or other third party;

5.
a power authorizing a financial institution or employee of a financial institution to take action relating to an account in which the financial institution holds cash, securities, commodities or other financial assets on behalf of the person giving the power;

6.
a power given by an individual who is or is seeking to become a director, officer, shareholder, employee, partner, limited partner, member, unit owner or manager of a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, condominium or other legal or commercial entity in his or her capacity as such;

7.
a power contained in a partnership agreement, limited liability company operating agreement, declaration of trust, declaration of condominium, condominium bylaws, condominium offering plan or other agreement or instrument governing the internal affairs of an entity authorizing a director, officer, shareholder, employee, partner, limited partner, member, unit owner, manager or other person to take lawful action relating to such entity;

8.
a power given to a condominium managing agent to take action in connection with the use, management and operation of a condominium unit;

9.
a power given to a licensed real estate broker to take action in connection with a listing of real property, mortgage loan, lease or management agreement;

10.
a power authorizing acceptance of service of process on behalf of the principal; and

11.
a power created pursuant to authorization provided by a federal or state statute, other than this title, that specifically contemplates creation of the power, including without limitation a power to make health care decisions or decisions involving the disposition of remains. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit use of a statutory short form power of attorney or a nonstatutory power of attorney in connection with any of the transactions described in this section.

Source:
Section 5-1501C — Powers of attorney excluded from this title, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GOB/5-1501C (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
