SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._general_obligations_law_section_5-1507
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GOB/5-1507 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

General Obligations Law Section 5-1507

Signature of agent

1.
(a) In any transaction where the agent is acting pursuant to a power of attorney and where the hand-written signature of the agent or principal is required, the agent shall disclose the principal and agent relationship by:

(1)
signing “(name of agent) as agent for (name of principal)”; or

(2)
signing “(name of principal) by (name of agent), as agent”; or

(3)
any similar written disclosure of the principal and agent relationship.

(b)
A third party shall incur no liability for accepting a signature that does not meet the requirements of this subdivision.

2.
When the agent engages in a transaction on behalf of the principal, the agent is attesting that:

(a)
the agent has actual authority to engage in the transaction;

(b)
the agent does not have, at the time of the transaction, actual notice of the termination or revocation of the power of attorney, or notice of any facts indicating that the power of attorney has been terminated or revoked;

(c)
if the power of attorney is one which terminates upon the principal’s incapacity, the agent does not have, at the time of the transaction actual notice of the principal’s incapacity, or notice of any facts indicating the principal’s incapacity.

(d)
the agent does not have, at the time of the transaction, actual notice that the power of attorney has been modified in any way that would affect the ability of the agent to engage in the transaction, or notice of any facts indicating that the power of attorney has been so modified.

3.
The attestation of the agent pursuant to subdivision two of this section is not effective as to any third party who had actual notice that the power of attorney had terminated or been revoked prior to the transaction.

Source:
Section 5-1507 — Signature of agent, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GOB/5-1507 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
