SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._general_obligations_law_section_5-1502k
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GOB/5-1502K (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

General Obligations Law Section 5-1502K

Construction--matters related to health care

In a statutory short form power of attorney, the language conferring general authority with respect to “matters related to health care,” or in a statutory short form power of attorney properly executed in accordance with the laws in effect at the time of its execution, the language conferring authority with respect to “records, reports and statements,” must be construed to mean that the principal authorizes the agent:

1.
To be responsible for matters relating to the principal’s health care, including, but not limited to, benefit entitlements and payment obligations, and in so doing, notwithstanding any law to the contrary, to receive from “health care providers” and “health plans,” information, including, but not limited to, “protected health information” as defined in federal and state law, rules and regulations, in order to ascertain the benefits to which the principal is entitled and to determine the legitimacy and accuracy of charges for health care provided to the principal; to obtain for the principal the health care benefits to which the principal is entitled; to meet the principal’s financial obligations, and pay bills due and owing, for health care provided to the principal; and to represent the principal, and to act as the principal’s personal representative, with respect to matters pertaining to the principal’s health care. The authority granted by this subdivision is limited to health care financial matters and shall not include authorization for the agent to make health care decisions for the principal;

2.
To keep records of all cash received and disbursed for or on account of the principal, of all credits and debits to the account of the principal, and of all transactions affecting in any way the assets and liabilities of the principal;

3.
To prepare, to execute and to file all tax, social security, unemployment insurance and information returns, required by the laws of the United States, of any state or of any subdivision thereof or of any foreign government, to prepare, to execute and to file all other papers and instruments which the agent shall think to be desirable or necessary for the safeguarding of the principal against excess or illegal taxation or against penalties imposed for claimed violation of any law or other governmental regulation;

4.
To prepare, to execute and to file any record, report, statement, or other document to safeguard or promote the principal’s interest, under a statute or governmental regulation;

5.
To hire, to discharge, and to compensate any attorney, accountant, or other assistant or assistants when the agent shall think such action to be desirable for the proper execution by him of any of the powers described in this section; and

6.
In general, and in addition to all the specific acts in this section enumerated, to do any other act or acts, which the principal can do through an agent, in connection with the preparation, execution, filing, storage or other utilization of any records, reports or statements of or concerning the principal’s affairs. All powers described in this section shall be exercisable equally with respect to any health care billing and payment matters, and records, reports or statements of or concerning the affairs of the principal existing at the giving of the power of attorney or thereafter arising, and whether arising in the state of New York or elsewhere.

Source:
Section 5-1502K — Construction--matters related to health care, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GOB/5-1502K (updated Jun. 18, 2021; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
