SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._general_obligations_law_section_5-322.1
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GOB/5-322.1 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

General Obligations Law Section 5-322.1

Agreements exempting owners and contractors from liability for negligence void and unenforceable

certain cases

1.
A covenant, promise, agreement or understanding in, or in connection with or collateral to a contract or agreement relative to the construction, alteration, repair or maintenance of a building, structure, appurtenances and appliances including moving, demolition and excavating connected therewith, purporting to indemnify or hold harmless the promisee against liability for damage arising out of bodily injury to persons or damage to property contributed to, caused by or resulting from the negligence of the promisee, his agents or employees, or indemnitee, whether such negligence be in whole or in part, is against public policy and is void and unenforceable; provided that this section shall not affect the validity of any insurance contract, workers’ compensation agreement or other agreement issued by an admitted insurer. This subdivision shall not preclude a promisee requiring indemnification for damages arising out of bodily injury to persons or damage to property caused by or resulting from the negligence of a party other than the promisee, whether or not the promisor is partially negligent.

2.
A covenant, promise, agreement or understanding in, or in connection with or collateral to a contract or agreement relative to the construction, alteration, repair or maintenance of a building, structure, appurtenances and appliances including moving, demolition and excavating connected therewith, purporting to condition a subcontractor’s or materialman’s right to file a claim and/or commence an action on a payment bond on exhaustion of another legal remedy is against public policy and is void and unenforceable; provided that this subdivision shall not affect the validity of any insurance contract, workers’ compensation agreement or other agreement issued by an admitted insurer.

3.
The provisions of this section shall only apply to covenants, promises, agreements or understandings in, or in connection with or collateral to a contract or agreement, as enumerated in subdivision one hereof, entered into on or after the thirtieth day next succeeding the date on which it shall have become a law.

Source:
Section 5-322.1 — Agreements exempting owners and contractors from liability for negligence void and unenforceable; certain cases, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GOB/5-322.1 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
