SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._general_obligations_law_section_5-334
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GOB/5-334 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

General Obligations Law Section 5-334

Option or right to acquire interest in property

1.
An option or right to acquire an equity or other ownership interest in property or in a partnership, corporation, trust or other entity that owns property shall not be unenforceable because the owner of such interest grants such option or right to the holder of a mortgage which is a lien on such property or to the holder of a security interest in such property, simultaneously with or in connection with any loan or forbearance of money secured by such mortgage or security interest, if (a) the power to exercise such option or right is not dependent upon the occurrence of a default with respect to such loan, forbearance, mortgage or security interest, and

(b)
such loan or forbearance is for the principal sum of two million five hundred thousand dollars or more when the option or right is granted. Loans or forbearances aggregating two million five hundred thousand dollars or more which are to be made or advanced to any one borrower in one or more installments pursuant to a written agreement by one or more lenders shall be deemed a single loan or forbearance for the total amount which the lender or lenders have agreed to make or advance pursuant to such agreement.

2.
This section shall not be construed to limit, impair or otherwise affect the power of the holder of any option or right to acquire an equity or other ownership interest in property or in a partnership, corporation, trust or other entity that owns property, if such option or right is or would be enforceable without reference to this section.

3.
This section shall apply to all options or rights which are exercised on or after the effective date of this section, notwithstanding the date when such options or rights were granted.

Source:
Section 5-334 — Option or right to acquire interest in property, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GOB/5-334 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
