SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._general_obligations_law_section_5-335
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GOB/5-335 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

General Obligations Law Section 5-335

Limitation of reimbursement and subrogation claims in personal injury and wrongful death actions

(a)
When a person settles a claim, whether in litigation or otherwise, against one or more other persons for personal injuries, medical, dental, or podiatric malpractice, or wrongful death, it shall be conclusively presumed that the settlement does not include any compensation for the cost of health care services, loss of earnings or other economic loss to the extent those losses or expenses have been or are obligated to be paid or reimbursed by an insurer. By entering into any such settlement, a person shall not be deemed to have taken an action in derogation of any right of any insurer that paid or is obligated to pay those losses or expenses; nor shall a person’s entry into such settlement constitute a violation of any contract between the person and such insurer. No person entering into such a settlement shall be subject to a subrogation claim or claim for reimbursement by an insurer and an insurer shall have no lien or right of subrogation or reimbursement against any such settling person or any other party to such a settlement, with respect to those losses or expenses that have been or are obligated to be paid or reimbursed by said insurer.

(b)
This section shall not apply to a subrogation claim for recovery of additional first-party benefits provided pursuant to article fifty-one of the insurance law. The term “additional first-party benefits”, as used in this subdivision, shall have the same meaning given it in section 65-1.3 of title 11 of the codes, rules and regulations of the state of New York as of the effective date of this statute.

(c)
This section shall not apply to a subrogation or reimbursement claim for recovery of benefits provided by Medicare or Medicaid, specifically authorized pursuant to article fifty-one of the insurance law, or pursuant to a policy of insurance or an insurance contract providing workers’ compensation benefits.

Source:
Section 5-335 — Limitation of reimbursement and subrogation claims in personal injury and wrongful death actions, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GOB/5-335 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
