SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._executive_law_section_294-a
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/EXC/294-A (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Executive Law Section 294-A

Statewide campaign for the acceptance, inclusion, tolerance and understanding of diversity

1.
The division shall develop and implement a statewide campaign to increase awareness and promote the acceptance, inclusion, tolerance and understanding of the diversity of people of this state, including, but not limited to diversity based on religion, race, color, creed, sex, ethnicity, national origin, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression. In the development and implementation of such campaign, the division shall adopt as its purpose, the combatting of bias, hatred and discrimination in all their forms and the prevention of discrimination based on religion, race, color, creed, sex, ethnicity, national origin, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression.

2.
In order to effectuate the purpose of the campaign the division shall:

a.
coordinate and cooperate with public and private organizations, including, but not limited to, local governments, community groups, school districts, churches, charitable organizations, foundations and other relevant groups;

b.
develop educational materials to be published on the website of the division, social media campaigns or other means determined to be the most effective at reaching the public in a cost effective manner;

c.
make information regarding such campaign available on the website of the division; and

d.
utilize other resources the division deems appropriate and any other resources, private or public, identified by the division.

Source:
Section 294-A — Statewide campaign for the acceptance, inclusion, tolerance and understanding of diversity, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/EXC/294-A (updated Apr. 7, 2023; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
